[{"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Virgin Australia, the trading name of Virgin Australia Airlines Pty Ltd, is an Australian-based airline. It is the largest airline by fleet size to use the Virgin brand. It commenced services on 31 August 2000 as Virgin Blue, with two aircraft on a single route. It suddenly found itself as a major airline in Australia's domestic market after the collapse of Ansett Australia in September 2001. The airline has since grown to directly serve 32 cities in Australia, from hubs in Brisbane, Melbourne and Sydney.\n Question: When did Virgin Australia start operating?", "output": "Virgin Australia commenced services on 31 August 2000 as Virgin Blue, with two aircraft on a single route."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Komorida was born in Kumamoto Prefecture on July 10, 1981. After graduating from high school, he joined the J1 League club Avispa Fukuoka in 2000. Although he debuted as a midfielder in 2001, he did not play much and the club was relegated to the J2 League at the end of the 2001 season. In 2002, he moved to the J2 club Oita Trinita. He became a regular player as a defensive midfielder and the club won the championship in 2002 and was promoted in 2003. He played many matches until 2005. In September 2005, he moved to the J2 club Montedio Yamagata. In 2006, he moved to the J2 club Vissel Kobe. Although he became a regular player as a defensive midfielder, his gradually was played less during the summer. In 2007, he moved to the Japan Football League club Rosso Kumamoto (later Roasso Kumamoto) based in his local region. He played as a regular player and the club was promoted to J2 in 2008. Although he did not play as much, he still played in many matches. In 2010, he moved to Indonesia and joined Persela Lamongan. In July 2010, he returned to Japan and joined the J2 club Giravanz Kitakyushu. He played often as a defensive midfielder and center back until 2012 when he retired.\n Question: When was Tomoaki Komorida born?", "output": "Tomoaki Komorida was born on July 10,1981."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lollapalooza /\u02ccl\u0252l\u0259p\u0259\u02c8lu\u02d0z\u0259/ (Lolla) is an annual American four-day music festival held in Grant Park in Chicago. It originally started as a touring event in 1991, but several years later, Chicago became its permanent location. Music genres include but are not limited to alternative rock, heavy metal, punk rock, hip hop, and electronic dance music. Lollapalooza has also featured visual arts, nonprofit organizations, and political organizations. The festival, held in Grant Park, hosts an estimated 400,000 people each July and sells out annually. Lollapalooza is one of the largest and most iconic music festivals in the world and one of the longest-running in the United States.\n\nLollapalooza was conceived and created in 1991 as a farewell tour by Perry Farrell, singer of the group Jane's Addiction.\n Question: Given a reference text about Lollapalooza, where does it take place, who started it and what is it?", "output": "Lollapalooze is an annual musical festival held in Grant Park in Chicago, Illinois. It was started in 1991 as a farewell tour by Perry Farrell, singe of the group Jane's Addiction. The festival includes an array of musical genres including alternative rock, heavy metal, punk rock, hip hop, and electronic dance music. The festivals welcomes an estimated 400,000 people each year and sells out annually. Some notable headliners include: the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Chance the Rapper, Metallica, and Lady Gage. Lollapalooza is one of the largest and most iconic festivals in the world and a staple of Chicago."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Van Zyl joined the Eastern Province Kings Academy, where he played for the Eastern Province U19 side in the 2010 Under-19 Provincial Championship. He was a key player for the Eastern Province U21 side in the 2012 Under-21 Provincial Championship, scoring 71 points in eight appearances. Van Zyl was under the Top SARU Performers, scoring the most tries at 6 in the 2012 Provincial Under 21 in the Rugby Junior Provincials.\n\nThis included a record and a remarkable personal haul in their opening match, when he scored 36 of his team's points in a 61\u20133 victory over Boland U21, consisting of four tries and eight conversions and was awarded Man of the Match.\n Question: Who was Kyle Van Zyl playing against when he scored 36 of hisa teams 61 points?", "output": "Kyle Van Zyl was playing against Boland U21 when he scored 36 points, leading his team to victory in a 61-3 win."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Needles and Pins\" is a rock song credited to American writers Jack Nitzsche and Sonny Bono. Jackie DeShannon recorded it in 1963 and other versions followed. The most successful ones were by the Searchers, whose version reached No. 1 on the UK singles chart in 1964, and Smokie, who had a worldwide hit in 1977. Others who recorded the song include the Ramones, Gene Clark, and Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers with Stevie Nicks.\n\nJackie DeShannon version (1963)\nIn his autobiography, Bono states that he sang along with Nitzsche's guitar-playing, thus creating both the tune and the lyrics, being guided by the chord progressions. However, Jackie DeShannon claims that the song was written at the piano, and that she was a full participant in the song's creation, along with Nitzsche and Bono, although she did not get formal credit.\n\nDeShannon was the first to record the song; in the US it peaked at number 84 on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart in May 1963. Though it was only a minor US hit, DeShannon's recording of the song topped the charts in Canada, hitting number one on the CHUM Chart in July 1963\n Question: Who was the first to record the Needles and Pins song?", "output": "The first artist to record Needles and Pins song was DeShannon."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kia claims that the Stinger accelerates from zero to 100 km/h (62 mph) in 7.7, 6 and 4.9 seconds for the 2.2-liter diesel, 2.0-liter petrol and 3.3-liter petrol respectively. Schreyer reportedly drove a pre-production Stinger GT at a top speed of 269 km/h (167 mph) on the Autobahn.\n\nDuring a test by Car and Driver, an all-wheel-drive U.S. spec GT 3.3T with Michelin Pilot Sport 4 tires achieved 0\u201360 mph (0\u201397 km/h) in 4.6 seconds on the track, reached 0.91 g on the skidpad and was able to stop from 70 mph (113 km/h) in 164 feet (50 m). According to this publication, the U.S. model's top speed is governed at 167 mph (269 km/h) per Kia specs. In tests conducted by Motor Trend, the four-cylinder U.S. spec Stinger 2.0 RWD on Bridgestone Potenza tires reached 60 mph (97 km/h) in 6.6 seconds, completed the 1\u20444-mile (0.4 km) run in 15 seconds and stopped from 60 mph (97 km/h) in 126 feet (38 m). The average lateral acceleration recorded in track testing was 0.85 g.\n Question: Given this paragraph, what is the top speed of a Kia Stinger?", "output": "The top speed of a Kia Stinger is 269km/h (167mph) according to this text."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The British Virgin Islands (BVI), officially the Virgin Islands, are a British Overseas Territory in the Caribbean, to the east of Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands and north-west of Anguilla. The islands are geographically part of the Virgin Islands archipelago and are located in the Leeward Islands of the Lesser Antilles and part of the West Indies.\n\nThe British Virgin Islands consist of the main islands of Tortola, Virgin Gorda, Anegada and Jost Van Dyke, along with more than 50 other smaller islands and cays. About 16 of the islands are inhabited. The capital, Road Town, is on Tortola, the largest island, which is about 20 km (12 mi) long and 5 km (3 mi) wide. The islands had a population of 28,054 at the 2010 Census, of whom 23,491 lived on Tortola; current estimates put the population at 35,802 (July 2018).\n Question: Where are the British Virgin Islands (BVI) and which islands are a part of the BVI?", "output": "The British Virgin Islands (BVI), officially the Virgin Islands, are a British Overseas Territory in the Caribbean, to the east of Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands and north-west of Anguilla. The islands are geographically part of the Virgin Islands archipelago and are located in the Leeward Islands of the Lesser Antilles and part of the West Indies.\n\nThe British Virgin Islands consist of the main islands of Tortola, Virgin Gorda, Anegada and Jost Van Dyke, along with more than 50 other smaller islands and cays."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Exogamy often results in two individuals that are not closely genetically related marrying each other; that is, outbreeding as opposed to inbreeding. In moderation, this benefits the offspring as it reduces the risk of the offspring inheriting two copies of a defective gene. Increasing the genetic diversity of the offspring improves the chances of offspring reproducing, up until the fourth-cousin level of relatedness; however, reproduction between individuals on the fourth-cousin level of relatedness decreases evolutionarily fitness.\n Question: Does \"outbreeding\" or \"inbreeding\" benefit the offspring more?", "output": "\"Outbreeding\" is more beneficial to the offspring as it reduces the risk of inheriting defective genes, increasing the offspring's ability to reproduce."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Reading railway station is a major transport hub in Reading, Berkshire, England. It is on the northern edge of the town centre, near the main retail and commercial areas and the River Thames, 36 miles (58 km) from London Paddington. The first Reading station was opened on 30 March 1840 as the temporary western terminus of the original line of the Great Western Railway (GWR). Reading is the ninth-busiest station in the UK outside London and the second busiest interchange station outside London with over 3.8 million passengers changing trains at the station annually.\n Question: When was the first Reading railway station opened?", "output": "The first Reading railway station was opened on the 30th of March, 1840."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Billie Eilish Pirate Baird O'Connell (/\u02c8a\u026al\u026a\u0283/ EYE-lish; born December 18, 2001) is an American singer and songwriter. She first gained public attention in 2015 with her debut single \"Ocean Eyes\", written and produced by her brother Finneas O'Connell, with whom she collaborates on music and live shows. In 2017, she released her debut extended play (EP), titled Don't Smile at Me. Commercially successful, it reached the top 15 of record charts in numerous countries, including the US, UK, Canada, and Australia.\n\nEilish's first studio album, When We All Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go? (2019), debuted atop the US Billboard 200 and UK Albums Chart. It was one of the best-selling albums of the year, buoyed by the success of its fifth single \"Bad Guy\", Eilish's first number-one on the US Billboard Hot 100. This made her the first artist born in the 21st century to release a chart-topping single. The following year, Eilish performed the theme song \"No Time to Die\" for the James Bond film of the same name, which topped the UK Singles Chart and won the Academy Award for Best Original Song in 2022. Her subsequent singles \"Everything I Wanted\", \"My Future\", \"Therefore I Am\", and \"Your Power\" peaked in the top 10 in the US and UK. Her second studio album, Happier Than Ever (2021), topped charts in 25 countries.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Billie Eilish, tell me who produced her debut single, also tell me what is her chart-topping single?", "output": "Her brother Finneas O'Connell produced her debut single \"Ocean Eyes\", and her chart topping single is \"Bad Guy\""}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: There have been twenty permanent and eight caretaker managers of Arsenal since 1897; Stewart Houston has managed the club in two separate spells as caretaker. The most successful person to manage Arsenal is Ars\u00e8ne Wenger, who won three Premier League titles, seven FA Cups and seven Community Shields between 1996 and 2018. Wenger is the club's longest-serving manager; he surpassed George Allison's record of 13 years in October 2009. Two Arsenal managers have died in the job \u2013 Herbert Chapman and Tom Whittaker.\n Question: How many managers have Arsenal had?", "output": "Arsenal have had twenty permanent and eight caretake managers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In machine learning, support vector machines (SVMs, also support vector networks) are supervised learning models with associated learning algorithms that analyze data for classification and regression analysis. Developed at AT&T Bell Laboratories by Vladimir Vapnik with colleagues (Boser et al., 1992, Guyon et al., 1993, Cortes and Vapnik, 1995, Vapnik et al., 1997[citation needed]) SVMs are one of the most robust prediction methods, being based on statistical learning frameworks or VC theory proposed by Vapnik (1982, 1995) and Chervonenkis (1974). Given a set of training examples, each marked as belonging to one of two categories, an SVM training algorithm builds a model that assigns new examples to one category or the other, making it a non-probabilistic binary linear classifier (although methods such as Platt scaling exist to use SVM in a probabilistic classification setting). SVM maps training examples to points in space so as to maximise the width of the gap between the two categories. New examples are then mapped into that same space and predicted to belong to a category based on which side of the gap they fall.\n\nIn addition to performing linear classification, SVMs can efficiently perform a non-linear classification using what is called the kernel trick, implicitly mapping their inputs into high-dimensional feature spaces.\n\nThe support vector clustering algorithm, created by Hava Siegelmann and Vladimir Vapnik, applies the statistics of support vectors, developed in the support vector machines algorithm, to categorize unlabeled data.[citation needed] These data sets require unsupervised learning approaches, which attempt to find natural clustering of the data to groups and, then, to map new data according to these clusters.\n Question: What is SVM?", "output": "SVM stands for \"\"support vector machine\". It is a machine learning model for supervised learning tasks. It was popular in the 1990s and early 2000s, before deep learning take off. The classic use case is binary classification, but its extension can also do multi-label classification as we as regression. Kernel methods greatly enhanced SVM's capability to perform non-linear machine learning tasks."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Austin FC played their first MLS match against LAFC at Banc of California Stadium on April 17, 2021, losing 0\u20132. The club secured its first victory the following week against the Colorado Rapids, winning 3\u20131. Diego Fag\u00fandez scored the club's first goal and the following two were scored by the club's first Designated Player, Cecilio Dominguez. Their home opener was held on June 19, 2021, against the San Jose Earthquakes, a match which ended in a scoreless draw. The team secured its first ever home victory on July 1, 2021, defeating the Portland Timbers 4\u20131. Jon Gallagher scored the team's first home goal and the first MLS goal at Q2 Stadium.\n Question: Who scored first in Austin FC's first victory in a home game in the 2021 MLS season?", "output": "Jon Gallagher scored the first goal in Austin FC's first win at home, over the Portland Timbers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mustard seeds are the small round seeds of various mustard plants. The seeds are usually about 1 to 2 millimetres (0.039 to 0.079 in) in diameter and may be colored from yellowish white to black. They are an important spice in many regional foods and may come from one of three different plants: black mustard (Brassica nigra), brown mustard (B. juncea), or white mustard (Sinapis alba).\n\nGrinding and mixing the seeds with water, vinegar or other liquids creates the yellow condiment known as prepared mustard.\n\nMustard seeds generally take eight to ten days to germinate if placed under the proper conditions, which include a cold atmosphere and relatively moist soil.\n Question: How long does it take for a mustard seed to germinate?", "output": "Mustard seeds generally take eight to ten days to germinate if placed under the proper conditions, which include a cold atmosphere and relatively moist soil."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: alvia rosmarinus (/\u02c8s\u00e6lvi\u0259 \u02ccr\u0252sm\u0259\u02c8ra\u026an\u0259s/), commonly known as rosemary, is a shrub with fragrant, evergreen, needle-like leaves and white, pink, purple, or blue flowers, native to the Mediterranean region. Until 2017, it was known by the scientific name Rosmarinus officinalis (/\u02ccr\u0252sm\u0259\u02c8ra\u026an\u0259s \u0259\u02ccf\u026as\u026a\u02c8ne\u026al\u026as/), now a synonym.\n\nIt is a member of the sage family Lamiaceae, which includes many other medicinal and culinary herbs. The name \"\"rosemary\"\" derives from Latin ros marinus (lit.\u2009'dew of the sea'). Rosemary has a fibrous root system\n Question: What is the origin of the name of the herb Rosemary?", "output": "The name \"rosemary\" derives from Latin ros marinus."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The law of triviality is C. Northcote Parkinson's 1957 argument that people within an organization commonly or typically give disproportionate weight to trivial issues. Parkinson provides the example of a fictional committee whose job was to approve the plans for a nuclear power plant spending the majority of its time on discussions about relatively minor but easy-to-grasp issues, such as what materials to use for the staff bicycle shed, while neglecting the proposed design of the plant itself, which is far more important and a far more difficult and complex task.\n\nThe law has been applied to software development and other activities. The terms bicycle-shed effect, bike-shed effect, and bike-shedding were coined based on Parkinson's example; it was popularised in the Berkeley Software Distribution community by the Danish software developer Poul-Henning Kamp in 1999 and, due to that, has since become popular within the field of software development generally.\n\nArgument\n\nA bicycle shed\nThe concept was first presented as a corollary of his broader \"Parkinson's law\" spoof of management. He dramatizes this \"law of triviality\" with the example of a committee's deliberations on an atomic reactor, contrasting it to deliberations on a bicycle shed. As he put it: \"The time spent on any item of the agenda will be in inverse proportion to the sum [of money] involved.\" A reactor is so vastly expensive and complicated that an average person cannot understand it (see ambiguity aversion), so one assumes that those who work on it understand it. However, everyone can visualize a cheap, simple bicycle shed, so planning one can result in endless discussions because everyone involved wants to implement their own proposal and demonstrate personal contribution.\n\nAfter a suggestion of building something new for the community, like a bike shed, problems arise when everyone involved argues about the details. This is a metaphor indicating that it is not necessary to argue about every little feature based simply on having the knowledge to do so. Some people have commented that the amount of noise generated by a change is inversely proportional to the complexity of the change.\n\nThe law of triviality is supported by behavioural research. People tend to spend more time on small decisions than they should, and less time on big decisions than they should. A simple explanation is that during the process of making a decision, one has to assess whether enough information has been collected to make the decision. If people make mistakes about whether they have enough information, they will tend to stop too early for big decisions. The reason is that big decisions require collecting information for a long time. It leaves more time to make a mistake (and stop) before getting enough information. Conversely, for small decisions, where people should stop early, they may continue to ponder for too long by mistake.\n\nRelated principles and formulations \nThere are several other principles, well-known in specific problem domains, which express a similar sentiment.\n\nWadler's law, named for computer scientist Philip Wadler, is a principle which asserts that the bulk of discussion on programming-language design centers on syntax (which, for purposes of the argument, is considered a solved problem), as opposed to semantics.\n\nSayre's law is a more general principle, which holds (among other formulations) that \"In any dispute, the intensity of feeling is inversely proportional to the value of the issues at stake\"; many formulations of the principle focus on academia.\n Question: Who coined the phrase \"Bike-shedding\" and when?", "output": "The phrase \"bike-shedding\" was introduced in 1957 by C. Northcote Parkinson."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Run Towards the Danger is a 2022 Canadian essay collection by Sarah Polley, a former child star, director, and screenwriter.\n\nThe six essays in the collection examine aspects of Polley's career on stage, screen, and on film detailing her roles in a Stratford Festival production of Alice Through the Looking Glass, as well as her breakout roles in The Adventures of Baron Munchausen and the TV series Road to Avonlea. The book also revealed for the first time that Polley had been a victim of Jian Ghomeshi who sexually and physically assaulted her when she was 16 and he was 28.\n Question: Given a reference text about Run Towards the Danger, tell me how many essays are part of the collection.", "output": "Six essays are part of the Run Towards the Danger essay collection."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A hackathon (also known as a hack day, hackfest, datathon or codefest; a portmanteau of hacking and marathon) is an event where people engage in rapid and collaborative engineering over a relatively short period of time such as 24 or 48 hours. They are often run using agile software development practices, such as sprint-like design wherein computer programmers and others involved in software development, including graphic designers, interface designers, product managers, project managers, domain experts, and others collaborate intensively on engineering projects, such as software engineering.\n\nThe goal of a hackathon is to create functioning software or hardware by the end of the event. Hackathons tend to have a specific focus, which can include the programming language used, the operating system, an application, an API, or the subject and the demographic group of the programmers. In other cases, there is no restriction on the type of software being created or the design of the new system.\n Question: Who tends to participates in hackathons?", "output": "Computer programmers and others involved in software development, including graphic designers, interface designers, product managers, project managers, domain experts, and others tend to participate in hackathons.\n\nThey collaborate intensively on engineering projects, such as software engineering with the goal of creating functioning software or hardware by the end of the event."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Marketing Automation is a subset of customer relationship management (CRM) or customer experience management (CXM) that focuses on the definition, segmentation, scheduling and tracking of marketing campaigns. The use of marketing automation makes processes that would otherwise have been performed manually much more efficient and makes new processes possible. Marketing Automation can be defined as a process where technology is used to automate several repetitive tasks that are undertaken on a regular basis in a marketing campaign.\n\nMarketing Automation platforms allow marketers to automate and simplify client communication by managing complex omnichannel marketing strategies from a single tool. Marketing Automation assists greatly in areas like Lead Generation, Segmentation, Lead nurturing and lead scoring, Relationship marketing, Cross-sell and upsell, Retention, Marketing ROI measurement. Effective marketing automation tools leverage data from a separate or integrated CRM to understand customer impact and preferences.\n Question: What is Marketing Automation?", "output": "Marketing Automation is software that helps marketers to do create efficient online and offline campaigns. It's part of CRM suite and people usually integrate it with their salesforce application and marketing website. The Marketing Automation platform allows marketers to automate and simplify customer communication by managing multi communication channels. This includes personalized email, dynamic web pages, digital banners, social media and more. People use it for lead generation, segmentation and nurturing and lead scoring. Post-sales marketers also use Marketing Automation for cross-sell, upsell and retention marketing. In"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Van Buren received a basic education at the village schoolhouse, and briefly studied Latin at the Kinderhook Academy and at Washington Seminary in Claverack. Van Buren was raised speaking primarily Dutch and learned English while attending school; he is the only president of the United States whose first language was not English. Also during his childhood, Van Buren learned at his father's inn how to interact with people from varied ethnic, income, and societal groups, which he used to his advantage as a political organizer. His formal education ended in 1796, when he began reading law at the office of Peter Silvester and his son Francis.\n Question: Which American president spoke Dutch as their first language?", "output": "President Van Buren spoke Dutch as his first language. He is the only president of the United States of America who spoke English as a second language."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The United States is a leading exporter of peanut butter, and one of the largest consumers of peanut butter annually per capita. January 24 is National Peanut Butter Day in the United States. In March 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic, retail sales of peanut butter in the United States increased by 75% over the level in March 2019.\n\nAccording to Jon Krampner's 2013 book on peanut butter, per capita consumption of peanut butter in Canada and the Netherlands \u2013 the largest consumer per capita in Europe \u2013 exceed that in the United States.\n\nIn Israel, the peanut-butter-flavored puffcorn snack Bamba accounts for 25% of the snack market; its consumption by infants has been linked to a low incidence of peanut allergies among Israelis.\n Question: Given this reference text about the consumption of peanut butter, when is national peanut butter day?", "output": "National Peanut Butter Day takes place on January 24th in the United States."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Fasting is the abstention from eating and sometimes drinking. From a purely physiological context, \"fasting\" may refer to the metabolic status of a person who has not eaten overnight (see \"Breakfast\"), or to the metabolic state achieved after complete digestion and absorption of a meal. Metabolic changes in the fasting state begin after absorption of a meal (typically 3\u20135 hours after eating).\n Question: What does fasting mean?", "output": "Fasting is the abstention from eating and sometimes drinking."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Furze Hill (or Furzehill) is a hamlet situated in the New Forest National Park of Hampshire, England. It is in the civil parish of Ellingham, Harbridge and Ibsley. Its nearest town is Fordingbridge, which lies approximately 3.1 miles (5.2 km) north-west from the hamlet.\n\nFurze Hill is a hamlet in the civil parish of Hyde. It is situated on low ground on either side of Huckles Brook on the South Gorley to Ogdens road. The houses are surrounded by fields and paddocks. Additional houses can be found at the southern edge of Gorley Common lining a narrow track to North Gorley.\n\nFurze Hill is the most recent settlement in the parish of Hyde, becoming an established community only in the 20th century.\n Question: Was Furze Hill an established community in the 19th century?", "output": "No, it was not an established community until the 20th century."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wine is an alcoholic drink typically made from fermented grapes. Yeast consumes the sugar in the grapes and converts it to ethanol and carbon dioxide, releasing heat in the process. Different varieties of grapes and strains of yeasts are major factors in different styles of wine. These differences result from the complex interactions between the biochemical development of the grape, the reactions involved in fermentation, the grape's growing environment (terroir), and the wine production process. Many countries enact legal appellations intended to define styles and qualities of wine. These typically restrict the geographical origin and permitted varieties of grapes, as well as other aspects of wine production. Wines can be made by fermentation of other fruit crops such as plum, cherry, pomegranate, blueberry, currant and elderberry.\n Question: What is wine?", "output": "Wine is an alcoholic drink typically made from fermented grapes."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lakshmi Puja is celebrated as a part of Tihar, a second national festival of Nepal after Dashain. In Nepal, it is celebrated for five days, which include Kag (crow) Tihar; Kukur (dog) Tihar; Gai (cow) Tihar in the morning and Lakshmi Puja at night; Maha puja (self puja); Goru (Ox and Bull) Tihar and Gobardhan puja; and finally, Bhai Tika (Bhai dhooj)\u2014respectively the first, second, third, fourth and fifth days.\n Question: What is the last festival celebrated in Tihar and how long does the festival last?", "output": "The festival lasts for 5 days and Bhai Tika is the last festival."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: John Johnstone (1881-1935) was a British businessman and rider. He was the tai-pan of the Jardine, Matheson & Co., member of the Shanghai Municipal Council and Legislative Council of Hong Kong.\n\nHe was the head of the Jardine, Matheson & Co. as well as director of numerous companies. He was member of the Shanghai Municipal Council and the Legislative Council of Hong Kong.\n\nHe was a keen rider and bore the reputation of being the best rider East of the Suez. He succeeded in winning the Jockey Cup on a pony named Ben-y-Gloe belonging to C. H. Ross, the former tai-pan of Jardines when he first went to Hong Kong in 1903. In 1904, he won the Professional Cup on a pony named Runaway Girl, purchased from W. A. Cruickshank. From 1903 to 1919, he rode in 1,178 races, winning 334, securing 192 seconds and 186 thirds, being unplaced 466 times, excluding the record of minor events such as Off Days or Gymkhanas. He won 14 Grand Nationals in China, and at one meeting in Hong Kong rode in 30 races winning 16 of them. He was also the President of the St. Andrew's Society.\n\nHe left Hong Kong on 31 March 1921 for home by the Empress of Asia.\n\nIn 1928 he won The Foxhunters Cup at Cheltenham riding Rathpatrick and officiated as steward at several of the northern meetings. He died at the Cheltenham meeting in 1935 where he was officiating.\n Question: What event John Johnstone won as a rider?", "output": "John Johnstone won the Jockey Cup on a horse named Ben-y-Gloe."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kennedy was born on February 22, 1932, at St. Margaret's Hospital in the Dorchester section of Boston, Massachusetts. He was the youngest of the nine children of Joseph Patrick Kennedy and Rose Fitzgerald, members of prominent Irish American families in Boston. They constituted one of the wealthiest families in the nation after their marriage. His eight siblings were Joseph Jr., John, Rosemary, Kathleen, Eunice, Patricia, Robert, and Jean. His older brother John asked to be the newborn's godfather, a request his parents honored, though they did not agree to his request to name the baby George Washington Kennedy (Ted was born on President George Washington's 200th birthday). They named the boy after their father's assistant.\n Question: Based on this paragraph, how many younger siblings did Kennedy have?", "output": "Based on this paragraph, Kennedy had no younger siblings, as he was the youngest of nine children."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Stanley J. Goldberg (born Maryland, 1939) is a special trial judge of the United States Tax Court.\n\nGoldberg attended public schools in Baltimore, MD. He earned a B.S. from the University of Maryland, School of Business and Public Administration in 1960 and an LL.B. from the University of Maryland School of Law in 1964. He did graduate work in Federal Income Taxation at New York University. Goldberg was admitted to practice in Maryland and New Jersey, 1964 and 1967, and Federal District Court. He began his career as a Tax Attorney in January 1965 with the United States Department of Treasury, Office of Chief Counsel, Internal Revenue Service, in New York City and was initially assigned to the General Litigation function. In 1967, he was reassigned to the Tax Litigation function. In 1976, he was promoted to Special Trial Attorney, and then to Assistant District Counsel in 1984. He was appointed a Special Trial Judge of the United States Tax Court on August 4, 1985.\n\nIn 1992, Goldberg commented on the trend of tax protester arguments being brought before the Tax Court and dismissed with penalties.\n Question: Can you tell me something about Stanley J. Goldberg", "output": "Stanley J. Goldberg (born Maryland, 1939) is a special trial judge of the United States Tax Court.\n\nGoldberg attended public schools in Baltimore, MD. He earned a B.S. from the University of Maryland, School of Business and Public Administration in 1960 and an LL.B. from the University of Maryland School of Law in 1964. He did graduate work in Federal Income Taxation at New York University. Goldberg was admitted to practice in Maryland and New Jersey, 1964 and 1967, and Federal District Court. \n\nHe began his career as a Tax Attorney in January 1965 with the United States Department of Treasury, Office of Chief Counsel, Internal Revenue Service, in New York City and was initially assigned to the General Litigation function. In 1967, he was reassigned to the Tax Litigation function. In 1976, he was promoted to Special Trial Attorney, and then to Assistant District Counsel in 1984. He was appointed a Special Trial Judge of the United States Tax Court on August 4, 1985.\n\nIn 1992, Goldberg commented on the trend of tax protester arguments being brought before the Tax Court and dismissed with penalties."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Shah starred on the reality television series The Real Housewives of Salt Lake City, which premiered in November 2020. In March 2021, she was criminally charged with conspiracy to commit money laundering and wire fraud, pleading not guilty to both charges days later. Her legal case was chronicled in the documentary film Housewife and the Shah Shocker, which premiered on Hulu in November that same year. In July 2022, Shah pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit wire fraud. In January 2023, Shah was sentenced to six-and-a-half years in prison. Shah began her prison sentence the following month.\n Question: Given a reference text about Jen Shah, what is she famous from, when was she criminally charged, what was the verdict, and when was she sentenced.", "output": "Jen Shah came into the spotlight in November 2020 when The Real Housewives of Salt Lake City aired. In March 2021 she was charged with conspiracy to commit money laundering as well as wire fraud. She pled not guilty, but then come July 2022 she plead guilty to commit wire fraud. January of 2023 she was sentenced to 6.5 years in prison and her sentence began in February."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The potential uses of AI in government are wide and varied, with Deloitte considering that \"Cognitive technologies could eventually revolutionize every facet of government operations\". Mehr suggests that six types of government problems are appropriate for AI applications:\n- Resource allocation - such as where administrative support is required to complete tasks more quickly.\n- Large datasets - where these are too large for employees to work efficiently and multiple datasets could be combined to provide greater insights.\n- Experts shortage - including where basic questions could be answered and niche issues can be learned.\n- Predictable scenario - historical data makes the situation predictable.\n- Procedural - repetitive tasks where inputs or outputs have a binary answer.\n- Diverse data - where data takes a variety of forms (such as visual and linguistic) and needs to be summarised regularly.\n Question: What types of problems in government could AI be used to solve", "output": "The potential uses of AI in government are wide and varied but some appropriate areas to consider AI applications include: Resource allocation; Large datasets; Repetitive tasks; Answering basic questions; Summarising data from multiple forms; Predicting future scenarios based on historical data."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Arlington Public Schools operates the county's public K-12 education system of 22 elementary schools; 6 middle schools (Dorothy Hamm Middle School, Gunston Middle School, Kenmore Middle School, Swanson Middle School, Thomas Jefferson Middle School, and Williamsburg Middle School); and 3 public high schools (Wakefield High School, Washington-Liberty High School, and Yorktown High School). H-B Woodlawn and Arlington Tech are alternative public schools. Arlington County spends about half of its local revenues on education. For the FY2013 budget, 83 percent of funding was from local revenues, and 12 percent from the state. Per pupil expenditures are expected to average $18,700, well above its neighbors, Fairfax County ($13,600) and Montgomery County ($14,900).\n Question: Given this paragraph, how many public high schools are in Arlington, Virginia?", "output": "There are 3 public high schools in Arlington, Va."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Cy Young Award is given annually to the best pitchers in Major League Baseball (MLB), one each for the American League (AL) and National League (NL). The award was first introduced in 1956 by Baseball Commissioner Ford Frick in honor of Hall of Fame pitcher Cy Young, who died in 1955. The award was originally given to the single best pitcher in the major leagues, but in 1967, after the retirement of Frick, the award was given to one pitcher in each league.\n Question: Given the reference text about the Cy Young Award, please describe what the award is and why it is awarded.", "output": "The Cy Young Award is given to the best pitches in the American and National leagues of Major League Baseball, for their achievements that exceed those of their peers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"The Fox in the Attic\" was originally published in 1961 by Chatto & Windus: London as v. 1 of The Human Predicament trilogy, and then in the United States by Harper & Brothers: New York. This was 23 years after Hughes's previous novel, In Hazard: A Sea Story, and 33 years after A High Wind in Jamaica, which was a best seller in the United Kingdom and America.It was published the following year in Sweden (Stockholm: Norstedt) as R\u00e4ven p\u00e5 vinden.\n\nThe second novel in The Human Predicament trilogy, The Wooden Shepherdess, was published in 1973 by Chatto & Windus: London; it carries on the story to 1934 and the Night of the Long Knives. The third and final novel was left unfinished, but the completed twelve chapters were included in the 2000 New York Review of Books edition of The Wooden Shepherdess.\n Question: Based on the provided text, place the following books in chronological order: \nThe Fox in the Attic, In Hazard: A Sea Story, A High Wind in Jamaica, and The Wooden Shepherdess", "output": "The order of the books are as follows:\n1) A High Wind in Jamaica\n2) In Hazard: A Sea Story\n3) The Fox in the Attic\n4) The Wooden Shepherdess"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The official languages of the United Nations are the six languages that are used in UN meetings and in which all official UN documents are written. In the six languages, four are the official language or national language of permanent members in the Security Council, while the remaining two are used due to the large number of their speakers. In alphabetical order of the Latin alphabet, they are:\n\nArabic (Modern Standard Arabic) \u2013 official or national language of several countries in the Middle East and North Africa, and used in the Arab world.\nChinese (Mandarin Chinese in simplified Chinese characters) \u2013 official language of the People's Republic of China.\nEnglish \u2013 majority and de facto official language of the United Kingdom, the United States and Australia, and majority (de jure) official language of Canada and New Zealand. It is also the most popular language, the most popular lingua franca, and a majority and/or official language in several other countries and territories.\nFrench \u2013 official language of France. It is also official in Belgium, Switzerland, Canada, and several countries in Africa.\nRussian \u2013 official language of the Russian Federation. It is also used in several post-Soviet states.\nSpanish \u2013 official or national language in 18 countries and one territory in the Americas (mostly Latin America or Hispanic America), Spain, and Equatorial Guinea.\n Question: What are the official languages of the United Nations?", "output": "Arabic, Mandarin Chinese, English, French, Russian, Spanish"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: After using the Gamebryo engine to create The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, and Fallout 3, Bethesda decided that Gamebryo's capabilities were becoming too outdated and began work on the Creation Engine for their next game, The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, by forking the codebase used for Fallout 3.\n\nFollowing the completion of Skyrim, Bethesda set out to enhance the graphical core of the Creation Engine by first adding a physically based deferred renderer to allow for more dynamic lighting and to paint materials object surfaces with realistic materials. Bethesda worked with technology company Nvidia to implement volumetric lighting through a technique that makes use of hardware tesselation. Additionally the updated version of the Creation Engine powering Bethesda's Fallout 4 offers more advanced character generation.\n Question: What's the game engine used by Bethesda before Creation Engine? And what's the last game make with it?", "output": "Gamebryo was the engine used by Bethesda before Creation Engine. It is developed by Gamebase Cot., Ltd and Gamebase USA. Gamebryo is used by numerous companies within the gaming industry.\n\nBethesda decided that Gamebryo's capabilities were becoming too outdated and began work on the Creation Engine for their next game, The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, by forking the codebase used for Fallout 3.\n\nThe last game from Bethesda made with Gamebryo engine is Fallout 3 (2008)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Go Between Bridge, formerly known as the Hale Street Link, is a toll bridge for vehicles, pedestrians and cyclists over the Brisbane River in inner-city Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. The bridge connects Merivale and Cordelia Streets in West End to Hale Street and the Inner City Bypass at Milton. It is Brisbane's first inner-city traffic bridge in 40 years and carries around 12,000 vehicles per day. The bridge opened to traffic on 5 July 2010 and is now operated by Transurban Queensland.\n Question: What is the old name for The Go Between Bridge?", "output": "Hale Street Link"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bitcoin (abbreviation: BTC or XBT; sign: \u20bf) is a protocol which implements a highly available, public, permanent, and decentralized ledger. In order to add to the ledger, a user must prove they control an entry in the ledger. The protocol specifies that the entry indicates an amount of a token, bitcoin with a minuscule b. The user can update the ledger, assigning some of their bitcoin to another entry in the ledger. Because the token has characteristics of money, it can be thought of as a digital currency.\n\nBitcoin transactions are verified by network nodes through cryptography and recorded in a public distributed ledger called a blockchain. The cryptocurrency was invented in 2008 by an unknown person or group of people using the name Satoshi Nakamoto. The currency began use in 2009, when its implementation was released as open-source software.:\u200ach. 1\u200a The word \"bitcoin\" was defined in a white paper published on October 31, 2008. It is a compound of the words bit and coin.\n\nThe Library of Congress reports that, as of November 2021, nine countries have fully banned bitcoin use, while a further forty-two have implicitly banned it. A few governments have used bitcoin in some capacity. El Salvador has adopted Bitcoin as legal tender, although use by merchants remains low. Ukraine has accepted cryptocurrency donations to fund the resistance to the 2022 Russian invasion. Iran has used bitcoin to bypass sanctions.\n Question: Based on the reference text about Bitcoin, how many countries have banned Bitcoin?", "output": "As of November 2021, 42 countries have implicitly banned and 9 countries have fully banned the use of Bitcoin."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Underground Railroad was a network of clandestine routes and safe houses established in the United States during the early- to the mid-19th century. It was used by enslaved African Americans primarily to escape into free states and Canada. The network was assisted by abolitionists and others sympathetic to the cause of the escapees. The enslaved persons who risked escape and those who aided them are also collectively referred to as the \"Underground Railroad\". Various other routes led to Mexico, where slavery had been abolished, and to islands in the Caribbean that were not part of the slave trade. An earlier escape route running south toward Florida, then a Spanish possession (except 1763\u20131783), existed from the late 17th century until approximately 1790. However, the network now generally known as the Underground Railroad began in the late 18th century. It ran north and grew steadily until the Emancipation Proclamation was signed by President Abraham Lincoln. One estimate suggests that by 1850, approximately 100,000 enslaved people had escaped to freedom via the network\n Question: What was the Underground Railroad?", "output": "The Underground Railroad was a secret network of routes and safe houses in the United States established in the early 19th century that led to free states, Canada, Mexico and other overseas areas. Black slaves used the Underground Railroad to escape from slavery. It is estimated that by 1850, about 100,000 slaves had escaped to freedom by the \"Railroad\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: James grew up playing basketball for St. Vincent\u2013St. Mary High School in his hometown of Akron, Ohio. He was heavily touted by the national media as a future NBA superstar. A prep-to-pro, he was selected by the Cleveland Cavaliers with the first overall pick of the 2003 NBA draft. Named the 2004 NBA Rookie of the Year, he soon established himself as one of the league's premier players, leading the Cavaliers to their first NBA Finals appearance in 2007 and winning the NBA MVP award in 2009 and 2010. After failing to win a championship with Cleveland, James left in 2010 as a free agent to join the Miami Heat; this was announced in a nationally televised special titled The Decision and is among the most controversial free agency moves in sports history.\n Question: Given this paragraph on LeBron James' early career, when did he win his first NBA MVP?", "output": "LeBron James won his first NBA MVP in 2009."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: RGP, formerly known as Resources Global Professionals, is the operating arm of Resources Connection, Inc. (NASDAQ:RGP). The company provides consulting services in the areas of finance & accounting; information management; governance, risk & compliance (GRC); human capital; legal & regulatory; corporate advisory & restructuring; strategic communications; and supply chain management. As of fiscal year ending May 28, 2016, the company employed 3,283 professionals in 68 offices in 20 countries around the world. The company reported serving over 1,700 clients. Company headquarters are located in Irvine, CA.\n Question: If each client was served by the same number of professionals, how many professionals (round to one decimal place) would each client be served by?", "output": "3283 professionals and 1700 clients, so 3283/1700 = 1.9 professionals serving each client."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lamb Air Ltd. was a Canadian airline that began operations in 1934 in The Pas, Manitoba, and went out of business in 1981.\n\nHistory\nTom Lamb was the son of Thomas Henry Peacock (THP) Lamb, who had emigrated from England in the late 19th century. THP Lamb turned from school teacher to fur trader and in 1900, started Lamb's Store in Moose Lake, Manitoba. Tom and his brothers and sisters grew up in northern Manitoba and worked for their father.\n\nTom Lamb left school before finishing grade 3. Later in life, he would make the comment, while giving his acceptance speech when receiving his honorary Doctorate of law from the University of Manitoba, \"If I had only gotten to grade 4\". At the age of 10, Tom, who had his own team of horses and sleigh, was competing with grown men in the fish hauling business. He would have to use fish boxes to step up on to be able to load his sleigh.\n\nOne of the Lamb family's businesses was \"logistics and transportation\". Fish, lumber, trees, fur and supplies needed to be hauled by any and all means. Dog teams, horses, boats, trucks and tractors were used. In the 1930s there was a transportation revolution happening. The aircraft was making its way into northern Canada. The first time Tom Lamb saw an aircraft he realized its potential. In 1930, Tom bought his first aircraft - a Stinson SR8. In 1930, Tom Lamb travelled to Winnipeg to learn to fly. To keep costs to a minimum, he lived in a tent behind the Winnipeg Flying Club. When he returned to The Pas and checked himself out on the Stinson.\n\nIn 1935, Tom incorporated Lamb Airways Limited. The airline had some name changes throughout the years and Tom became one of the best known Manitobans, if not Canadians, in the world. His adventures have been documented in books, a television documentary and even a song.\n Question: When was Lamb Air operating", "output": "Lamb Air Ltd. was a Canadian airline that began operations in 1934 in The Pas, Manitoba, and went out of business in 1981.\n\nHistory\nTom Lamb was the son of Thomas Henry Peacock (THP) Lamb, who had emigrated from England in the late 19th century. THP Lamb turned from school teacher to fur trader and in 1900, started Lamb's Store in Moose Lake, Manitoba. Tom and his brothers and sisters grew up in northern Manitoba and worked for their father.\n\nTom Lamb left school before finishing grade 3. Later in life, he would make the comment, while giving his acceptance speech when receiving his honorary Doctorate of law from the University of Manitoba, \"If I had only gotten to grade 4\". At the age of 10, Tom, who had his own team of horses and sleigh, was competing with grown men in the fish hauling business. He would have to use fish boxes to step up on to be able to load his sleigh.\n\nOne of the Lamb family's businesses was \"logistics and transportation\". Fish, lumber, trees, fur and supplies needed to be hauled by any and all means. Dog teams, horses, boats, trucks and tractors were used. In the 1930s there was a transportation revolution happening. The aircraft was making its way into northern Canada. The first time Tom Lamb saw an aircraft he realized its potential. In 1930, Tom bought his first aircraft - a Stinson SR8. In 1930, Tom Lamb travelled to Winnipeg to learn to fly. To keep costs to a minimum, he lived in a tent behind the Winnipeg Flying Club. When he returned to The Pas and checked himself out on the Stinson.\n\nIn 1935, Tom incorporated Lamb Airways Limited. The airline had some name changes throughout the years and Tom became one of the best known Manitobans, if not Canadians, in the world. His adventures have been documented in books, a television documentary and even a song."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hiking The Narrows is arguably the quintessential Zion experience. The Narrows can be hiked either as a top-down through-hike from Chamberlain Ranch to the Temple of Sinawava, or as an up-and-back bottom-up hike from the Temple of Sinawava. Hiking is done largely in the river as, for a third of the route, the river runs canyon wall to canyon wall. Water levels change from season to season; most hikers will wade at least waist-deep and many will swim a few short sections. \n\nThe Narrows is the narrowest section of Zion Canyon in Zion National Park, Utah, United States.\n Question: Which river can you hike in Utah?", "output": "The Narrows at Zion National Park"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cisco Systems, Inc., commonly known as Cisco, is an American-based multinational digital communications technology conglomerate corporation headquartered in San Jose, California. Cisco develops, manufactures, and sells networking hardware, software, telecommunications equipment and other high-technology services and products. Cisco specializes in specific tech markets, such as the Internet of Things (IoT), domain security, videoconferencing, and energy management with leading products including Webex, OpenDNS, Jabber, Duo Security, and Jasper. Cisco is one of the largest technology companies in the world ranking 74 on the Fortune 100 with over $51 billion in revenue and nearly 80,000 employees.\n Question: What does Cisco specialize in, what technology markets do they address, and what are their most successful products?", "output": "Cisco develops, manufactures, and sells networking hardware, software, telecommunications equipment and other high-technology services and products. Cisco specializes in specific tech markets, such as the Internet of Things (IoT), domain security, videoconferencing, and energy management with leading products including Webex, OpenDNS, Jabber, Duo Security, and Jasper."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The exact cause of SPD is not known.However, it is known that the midbrain and brainstem regions of the central nervous system are early centers in the processing pathway for multisensory integration; these brain regions are involved in processes including coordination, attention, arousal, and autonomic function. After sensory information passes through these centers, it is then routed to brain regions responsible for emotions, memory, and higher level cognitive functions. Damage in any part of the brain involved in multisensory processing can cause difficulties in adequately processing stimuli in a functional way.\n Question: What are the causes for Sensory processing disorder?", "output": "The exact cause of Sensory processing disorder is not known. However, it is known that the midbrain and brainstem regions of the central nervous system are early centers in the processing pathway for multisensory integration; these brain regions are involved in processes including coordination, attention, arousal, and autonomic function. After sensory information passes through these centers, it is then routed to brain regions responsible for emotions, memory, and higher level cognitive functions. Damage in any part of the brain involved in multisensory processing can cause difficulties in adequately processing stimuli in a functional way."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Disney is one of the biggest and best-known companies in the world, and has been ranked number 53 on the 2022 Fortune 500 list of biggest companies in the United States by revenue. Since its founding, the company has won 135 Academy Awards, 26 of which have been awarded to Walt. The company has been said to have produced some of the greatest films of all time, as well as revolutionizing the theme park industry. Disney has been criticized for supposed plagiarism, depicting racial stereotypes in the past, and both including and lacking LGBT-related elements in its films. The company, which has been public since 1940, trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) with ticker symbol DIS and has been a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average since 1991. In August 2020, just under two-thirds of the stock was owned by large financial institutions.\n Question: According to this text, when did Disney become a public company?", "output": "According to this text, Disney became a publicly listed company on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in 1940 with the ticker symbol DIS."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Gretel Beer was born in Vienna into a Jewish family. She was mostly raised by her aunt Olga Springer (Bechin, Bohemia 1879\u20131942 Maly Trostenets extermination camp) the widow of a physician (in 1937: 9th district, Porzellangasse 45), as her mother Regina Weidenfeld n\u00e9e Pisk died when Margaret was six years old and her father, Dionys (Duny) Weidenfeld, did not keep up a household. (At Porzellangasse, until 1938 Eric Pleskow and Ari Rath spent their childhood, as they told the Austrian broadcaster ORF in 2012.) After attending primary school at Marchegg, a small town east of Vienna near the border with Slovakia, she attended a federal Realschule at Vereinsgasse in Vienna's 2nd district, where many Jewish Viennese lived.\n\nIn the spring of 1938, after the annexation of Austria by Germany, she and 48 other pupils were forced to leave this school and attend a Jewish class elsewhere in Vienna. At the entrance hall of her school, which is now called Bundesrealgymnasium Vereinsgasse, since 1989 the names of the expelled pupils are displayed on a memorial inscription.\n Question: Where did Gretel attend primary school?", "output": "Gretel Beer attended primary school in Marchegg, in east of Vienna."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Psychiatry: An Industry of Death is a museum in Hollywood, Los Angeles, California, that has also hosted several touring exhibitions. It is owned and operated by the Citizens Commission on Human Rights (CCHR), an anti-psychiatry organization founded by the Church of Scientology and psychiatrist Thomas Szasz. The museum is located at 6616 Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. Entry is free.\n\nThe opening event on December 17, 2005, was attended by well-known Scientologists such as Priscilla Presley, Lisa Marie Presley, Jenna Elfman, Danny Masterson, Giovanni Ribisi, Catherine Bell, and Anne Archer, as well as former Scientologist Leah Remini.\n\nThe museum is dedicated to criticizing what it describes as \"an industry driven entirely by profit\". It has a variety of displays and exhibits that highlight physical psychiatric treatments, such as restraints, psychoactive drugs, electroconvulsive therapy and psychosurgery (including lobotomy, a procedure abandoned in the 1960s).\n\nThe exhibition is also well-known for being the site of a heated confrontation between BBC Panorama reporter John Sweeney, and the Church's then-spokesman Tommy Davis in March 2007, during the filming of Sweeney's documentary Scientology and Me.\n Question: Given a reference text about Psychiatry: An Industry of Death, tell me when it opened and and who owns and operates it.", "output": "The Psychiatry: An Industry of Death museum opened on December 17, 2005 and is owned and operated by the Citizens Commission on Human Rights."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Magical thinking, or superstitious thinking, is the belief that unrelated events are causally connected despite the absence of any plausible causal link between them, particularly as a result of supernatural effects. Examples include the idea that personal thoughts can influence the external world without acting on them, or that objects must be causally connected if they resemble each other or have come into contact with each other in the past. Magical thinking is a type of fallacious thinking and is a common sour\n Question: What is Magical Thinking?", "output": "Magical thinking is the belief that unrelated events are causally connected despite the absence of any plausible causal link between them."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Born in Scranton, Pennsylvania, Biden moved with his family to Delaware in 1953. He studied at the University of Delaware before earning his law degree from Syracuse University. He was elected to the New Castle County Council in 1970 and became the sixth-youngest senator in U.S. history after he was elected in 1972, at age 29. Biden was the chair or ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for 12 years. He chaired the Senate Judiciary Committee from 1987 to 1995; drafted and led the effort to pass the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act and the Violence Against Women Act; and oversaw six U.S. Supreme Court confirmation hearings, including the contentious hearings for Robert Bork and Clarence Thomas. Biden ran unsuccessfully for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1988 and 2008. Barack Obama chose Biden as his running mate in the 2008 and 2012 presidential elections. Biden was a close counselor to Obama during his two terms as Obama's vice president. Biden and his running mate, Kamala Harris, defeated incumbents Donald Trump and Mike Pence in the 2020 presidential election. On January 20, 2021, he became the oldest president in U.S. history, the first to have a female vice president, and the first from Delaware. \nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Biden\n Question: Based on this paragraph, how many times has Joe Biden run for president and what characteristics make him unique among all past presidents?", "output": "Based on this paragraph, Joe Biden has run for president three times, losing in 1988 and 2008 and eventually winning in 2020. As president, he is unique in three ways: the first to have a female vice president, and the first president from the state of Delaware."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Largest Earthquakes ever recorded\nThe 10 largest magnitudes in recorded history\n1. Valdivia, Chile 22 May 1960 (magnitude 9.5)\nThis earthquake killed 1655 people, injured 3000 and displaced two million. It caused US$550 million damage in Chile, while the tsunami that it spawned caused deaths and damage as far away as Hawaii, Japan and the Philippines. The 'rupture zone' of the quake was more than 1000 km long. Two days after the initial quake, the nearby volcano Puyehue erupted, sending ash and steam up to 6 km into the atmosphere over a period of several weeks.\n\n2. Prince William Sound, Alaska 28 March 1964 (magnitude 9.2)\nCompared to the Chilean earthquake, this earthquake was less damaging: the resulting tsunami took 128 lives and caused overall US$311 million in damage. The earthquake was felt mainly over Alaska, as well as some places in Canada, while the tsunami created by it caused damage as far away as Hawaii. The most damage was sustained by the city of Anchorage, 120 km north-west of the epicentre. Shaking from the quake itself is reported to have lasted for three minutes.\n\n3. Sumatra, Indonesia 26 December 2004 (magnitude 9.1)\nIn terms of damage and loss of life, the scale of the disaster caused by the resulting Boxing Day Tsunami was enormous. In total, 227,900 people were killed or presumed dead, with around 1.7 million displaced over 14 countries in South Asia and East Africa. The epicentre was 250 km south-east of Band Aceh, Indonesia, at a depth of 30 km. Several days later on 28 December, a mud volcano began erupting near Baratang, Andamar Islands, which is thought to have been associated with the earthquake.\n\n4. Sendai, Japan 11 March 2011 (magnitude 9.0)\nSo far the official death toll stands at several thousand from the combined effect of the powerful earthquake, aftershocks and the tsunami. However, the total is expected to rise, with some estimates of a final toll of over 10,000. Economic impacts are expected to be huge, with the shutting down of nuclear reactors which many industries rely on for power.\n\n5. Kamchatka, Russia 4 November 1952 (magnitude 9.0)\nThis earthquake generated a tsunami that caused widespread damage in the Hawaiian Islands. Property damage was estimated at around US$1,000,000. Some reports describe waves of over 9 m high at Kaena Point, Oahu. A farmer on Oahu reported the loss of six cows to the tsunami, but no people were reported killed.\n\n6. Bio-bio, Chile 27 February 2010 (magnitude 8.8)\nThis earthquake and subsequent tsunami killed at least 521 people, with 56 missing and 12,000 injured. More than 800,000 people were displaced with a total of 1.8m people affected across Chile, where damage was estimated at US$30 billion. The epicentre was 335 km south-west of Santiago, at a depth of 35 km. A minor tsunami travelled across the Pacific causing damage to boats as far away as San Diego, California.\n\n7. Off the coast of Ecuador 31 January 1906 (magnitude 8.8)\nThis earthquake caused a tsunami that is reported to have killed between 500 and 1,500 in Ecuador and Colombia. The tsunami travelled as far north as San Francisco, on the west coast of the US, and west to Hawaii and Japan. The tsunami took roughly 12 hours to cross the Pacific to Hilo, Hawaii.\n\n8. Rat Islands, Alaska 2 April 1965 (magnitude 8.7)\nThe worst of the damage attributed to this earthquake was caused by a tsunami, reported to be about 10 m high on Shemya Island. The wave caused flooding on Amchitka Island, causing US$10,000 in property damage. No deaths or injuries were reported.\n\n9. Sumatra, Indonesia 28 March 2005 (magnitude 8.6)\nThis earthquake killed 1313, with over 400 people injured by the tsunami as far away as Sri Lanka. The epicentre was 205 km north-west of Sibolga, Sumatra, at a depth of 30 km. This region, also the site of the 2004 Boxing Day Tsunami, is particularly geologically active, with three of the 15 biggest known earthquakes having happened here.\n\n10. Assam - Tibet 15 August 1950 (magnitude 8.6)\nThis inland earthquake caused widespread damages to buildings as well as large landslides. 780 people were killed in eastern Tibet, with many villages and towns affected across Assam, China, Tibet and India. Oscillations to lake levels occurred as far away as Norway. The total death toll is likely to be higher, as no definitive total was ever estimated. While the earthquake itself is known as the Assam Earthquake, it is believed the epicentre may have been in Tibet.\n Question: Which of the 10 largest earthquakes was the deadliest?", "output": "The 2004 earthquake on Sumatra, Indonesia was the deadliest. It caused a tsunami that killed more than 200,000 people."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: After World War II, parts of Eastern and Central Europe, including East Germany and eastern parts of Austria were occupied by Red Army according to the Potsdam Conference. Dependent communist governments were installed in the Eastern Bloc satellite states. After becoming the world's second nuclear power, the Soviet Union established the Warsaw Pact alliance, and entered into a struggle for global dominance, known as the Cold War, with the rivaling United States and NATO. After Stalin's death in 1953 and a short period of collective rule, the new leader Nikita Khrushchev denounced Stalin and launched the policy of de-Stalinization, releasing many political prisoners from the Gulag labor camps. The general easement of repressive policies became known later as the Khrushchev Thaw. At the same time, Cold War tensions reached its peak when the two rivals clashed over the deployment of the United States Jupiter missiles in Turkey and Soviet missiles in Cuba.\n\nIn 1957, the Soviet Union launched the world's first artificial satellite, Sputnik 1, thus starting the Space Age. Russian cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin became the first human to orbit the Earth, aboard the Vostok 1 manned spacecraft on 12 April 1961. Following the ousting of Khrushchev in 1964, another period of collective rule ensued, until Leonid Brezhnev became the leader. The era of the 1970s and the early 1980s was later designated as the Era of Stagnation. The 1965 Kosygin reform aimed for partial decentralisation of the Soviet economy. In 1979, after a communist-led revolution in Afghanistan, Soviet forces invaded the country, ultimately starting the Soviet\u2013Afghan War. In May 1988, the Soviets started to withdraw from Afghanistan, due to international opposition, persistent anti-Soviet guerrilla warfare, and a lack of support by Soviet citizens.\n\nFrom 1985 onwards, the last Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, who sought to enact liberal reforms in the Soviet system, introduced the policies of glasnost (openness) and perestroika (restructuring) in an attempt to end the period of economic stagnation and to democratise the government. This, however, led to the rise of strong nationalist and separatist movements across the country. Prior to 1991, the Soviet economy was the world's second-largest, but during its final years, it went into a crisis.\n\nBy 1991, economic and political turmoil began to boil over as the Baltic states chose to secede from the Soviet Union. On 17 March, a referendum was held, in which the vast majority of participating citizens voted in favour of changing the Soviet Union into a renewed federation. In June 1991, Boris Yeltsin became the first directly elected president in Russian history when he was elected president of the Russian SFSR. In August 1991, a coup d'\u00e9tat attempt by members of Gorbachev's government, directed against Gorbachev and aimed at preserving the Soviet Union, instead led to the end of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. On 25 December 1991, following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, along with contemporary Russia, fourteen other post-Soviet states emerged.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Cold War, why did the Soviets pull out of their war in Afghanistan?", "output": "The Soviets withdrew from the Soviet-Afghan War beginning in May 1988 due to international opposition, persistent anti-Soviet guerrilla warfare, and a lack of support by Soviet citizens."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Rhodes Scholarships are international postgraduate awards given to students to study at the University of Oxford. Since the scholarship program began in 1904, UVA has had fifty-five Rhodes Scholars, the most of any university in the American South, eighth-most overall, and third-most outside the Ivy League (behind Stanford University and the United States Military Academy (West Point)).\n\nEight NASA astronauts and launch directors are UVA alumni: Karl Gordon Henize, Bill Nelson, Thomas Marshburn, Leland Melvin, Jeff Wisoff, Kathryn Thornton, Patrick Forrester; and Michael Leinbach.\n\nThe Pulitzer Prize has been awarded to eight UVA alumni: Edward P. Jones, Ron Suskind, Virginius Dabney, Claudia Emerson, Henry Taylor, Lane DeGregory, George Rodrigue, and Michael Vitez.\n Question: According to the text below about UVA, name the UVA alumni that have won the Pulitzer Prize.", "output": "The Pulitzer Prize has been awarded to UVA alumni: Edward P. Jones, Ron Suskind, Virginius Dabney, Claudia Emerson, Henry Taylor, Lane DeGregory, George Rodrigue, and Michael Vitez."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Gennady Petrovich Lyachin (Russian: \u0413\u0435\u043d\u043d\u0430\u0434\u0438\u0439 \u041f\u0435\u0442\u0440\u043e\u0432\u0438\u0447 \u041b\u044f\u0447\u0438\u043d; 1 January 1955 \u2013 12 August 2000) was a Russian navy officer. He was the commanding officer of the Russian submarine Kursk when the vessel suffered a series of explosions and sank on 12 August 2000.\n\nLyachin was born in Sarpinsky in Volgograd Oblast. He entered the Navy in 1972 and graduated from the Higher Naval School of Submarine Navigation named for Lenin Komsomol in 1977 and was commissioned as an officer. He served as a weapons officer aboard the diesel-electric Juliett class cruise missile submarine K-58. From 1984 to 1986, as Captain 3rd Rank, he served as the executive officer of the K-77, also a Juliett Class. In 1986 he attended Advanced Special Officers' Classes during which time he was promoted to Captain 2nd Rank.\n\nIn October 1988, Lyachin received his first command, the K-304 also a Juliett class. He held this position until the K-304 was decommissioned after the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991.\n\nIn April 1991, he was appointed executive officer of a nuclear submarine, the Project 949A Antey class (NATO reporting name Oscar-II) K-119 Voronezh and served aboard through 1996. He and the newly formed crew spent the time between September 1991 and March 1993 undergoing training in Obninsk.\n\nLyachin was promoted to the rank of Captain 1st Rank in 1996 and given command of the Voronezh's sister ship, the ill-fated K-141 Kursk, the very last Project 949A submarine to be completed, which had been commissioned only two years earlier. When the Kursk sank on August 12, 2000, Lyachin perished along with the rest of the 117 crew members.\n Question: Given a reference text about Gennady Petrovich Lyachin, tell me when he joined the navy and when he was decommissioned.", "output": "Gennady Petrovich Lyachin joined the Navy in 1972 and was decommissioned in 1991 after the fall of the Soviet Union."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Survivor is a reality-competition television franchise produced in many countries around the world. The show features a group of contestants deliberately marooned in an isolated location, where they must provide basic survival necessities for themselves. The contestants compete in challenges for rewards and immunity from elimination. The contestants are progressively eliminated from the game as they are voted out by their fellow contestants until only one remains to be awarded the grand prize and named the \"Sole Survivor\".\n Question: Who is the 'sole Survivor' on the TV Show Survivor?", "output": "The contestants are progressively eliminated from the game as they are voted out by their fellow contestants until only one remains to be awarded the grand prize and named the \"Sole Survivor\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: This article lists the world's longest road routes that are either officially numbered or otherwise known under a single name. Some of the roads may still be partially planned or under construction.\n\nPan-American Highway\t30,000 km (19,000 mi)\tAmericas\tPrudhoe Bay, Alaska, United States United States\tPuerto Montt or Quell\u00f3n, Chile Chile or Ushuaia, Argentina Argentina\tLongest road according to the Guinness Book of Records.\nIncomplete at the Dari\u00e9n Gap, causing the northern and southern segments to be actually long about 11,500 and 9,600 km.\n Question: Which is longest road or highway or motorway in the world", "output": "the longest road in the world is in Americas. The longest road is a highway called Pan American highway. It spans 30000 Kilometers or 19000 miles. It starts from Prudhoe Bay, Alaska in United states and ends at Puerto Montt or Quell\u00f3n, Chile Chile or Ushuaia, Argentina Argentina\n\nThe pan american highway is registered as longest road in the world in guiness book of world records \n\nThere are also other categories of longest road in the worlds like Asian highway which starts in Kap\u0131kule, Turkey and ends in Tokyo, Japan. Asian highway is longest uninterrupted highway in the world. Length of the asian highway is 20557 Kilometers or 12774 miles\n\nLongest road within the single country is in Australia. The name of the road is Highway 1. This is loop road and legnth of the highway is 14500 Kilometers or 9000 miles"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: World War II or the Second World War, often abbreviated as WWII or WW2, was a global conflict that lasted from 1939 to 1945. The vast majority of the world's countries, including all of the great powers, fought as part of two opposing military alliances: the Allies and the Axis. Many participants threw their economic, industrial, and scientific capabilities behind this total war, blurring the distinction between civilian and military resources. Aircraft played a major role, enabling the strategic bombing of population centres and the delivery of the only two nuclear weapons ever used in war.\n\nWorld War II was by far the deadliest conflict in history; it resulted in an estimated 70 to 85 million fatalities, mostly among civilians. Tens of millions died due to genocides (including the Holocaust), starvation, massacres, and disease. In the wake of the Axis defeat, Germany and Japan were occupied, and war crimes tribunals were conducted against German and Japanese leaders.\n\nThe causes of World War II are debated, but contributing factors included the Second Italo-Ethiopian War, Spanish Civil War, Second Sino-Japanese War, Soviet\u2013Japanese border conflicts, the rise of fascism in Europe, and European tensions in the aftermath of World War I. World War II is generally considered to have begun on 1 September 1939, when Nazi Germany, under Adolf Hitler, invaded Poland. The United Kingdom and France subsequently declared war on Germany on 3 September. Under the Molotov\u2013Ribbentrop Pact of August 1939, Germany and the Soviet Union had partitioned Poland and marked out their \"spheres of influence\" across Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Romania. From late 1939 to early 1941, in a series of campaigns and treaties, Germany conquered or controlled much of continental Europe, in a military alliance with Italy, Japan and other countries called the Axis. Following the onset of campaigns in North Africa and East Africa, and the fall of France in mid-1940, the war continued primarily between the European Axis powers and the British Empire, with war in the Balkans, the aerial Battle of Britain, the Blitz of the United Kingdom, and the Battle of the Atlantic. On 22 June 1941, Germany led the European Axis powers in an invasion of the Soviet Union, opening the Eastern Front, the largest land theatre of war in history.\n Question: Given this paragraph about WWII, how many fatalities happened?", "output": "World War II lasted from 1939 to 1945 and was by far the deadliest conflict in history. It is estimated that there were 70-85 million fatalities, mostly among civilians. Tens of millions died due to genocides, starvation, assacres, and disease."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The invention of radio communication was preceded by many decades of establishing theoretical underpinnings, discovery and experimental investigation of radio waves, and engineering and technical developments related to their transmission and detection. These developments allowed Guglielmo Marconi to turn radio waves into a wireless communication system.\n Question: Who invented the radio?", "output": "The radio was invented by Guglielmo Marconi, which allowed the harnessing of radio waves into a wireless communication system.  This invention did not happen in a vacuum.  It was enabled by investigating radio waves and understanding how to detect and transmit them."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Since the 1980s, while Colnago continued to produce high-end steel bikes, they began to produce cycle frames using material other than steel, including titanium, aluminum, carbon fiber and mixed materials. One unique frame from this period, the Bititan, has a dual titanium down tube. Crimped and oversize tubes were used on the Tecnos\u2013one of the lightest production steel bikes produced. Similarly crimped oversized aluminum tubes were used on the Dream frame. In 1981 Colnago prototyped the CX Pista\u2013a full monocoque carbon fiber cycle with disc wheels, which was shown at the Milan bike show. Subsequently, Colnago worked with Ferrari to develop new carbon fiber technology, and Ernesto also credits their engineers for challenging him regarding fork design, which led to Colnago's innovative Precisa straight-bladed steel fork (1987). Colnago also experimented with multi-material frames, including the CT-1 and CT-2 constructed with titanium main tubes, carbon fiber forks and rear stays, and a similarly constructed (although short-lived) Master frame constructed with steel main tubes, carbon forks and stays.\n Question: Given this paragraph about bicycle manufacturer Colnago, what Italian automobile company did Colnago work with to develop new carbon fiber technology?", "output": "Colnago worked with Ferrari to develop new carbon fiber technology."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Rhual is a Grade I listed building in Flintshire. This small mansion has medieval origins and is surrounded by a large landscaped park. The present building was constructed in 1634 by Evan Edwards, a member of a well established Flintshire family which traced its descent from the Welsh king Hywel Dda. He most likely incorporated an older medieval house into the north wing of the current building. The house has since been built upon further, and the east and south entrances were created in the 19th century.\n Question: When was Rhual constructed?", "output": "Rhual was constructed in 1634 by Evan Edwards."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Spellenspektakel is the largest board game convention in the Netherlands, featuring game demonstrations, tournaments and other game related activities. It focusses on traditional strategy boardgames, collectible card games, pen-and-paper role-playing games and miniatures wargames. Game publishers participate by showing and demonstrating their new releases to the public. Additionally, the Spellenspektakel hosts numerous game stores and player communities. Visitors can try any game on display and buy the ones they prefer. During the 2019 edition at the Jaarbeurs venue in Utrecht, the Spellenspektakel welcomed over 14,000 people\n Question: Given a reference text about the Spellenspektakel, tell me where it takes place and what games are played.", "output": "The Spellenspektakel takes place in the Netherlands where board games are played."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Walrus and the Whistleblower is a 2020 Canadian documentary film directed by Nathalie Bibeau. The film profiles Phil Demers, a former employee of Marineland who attempted to blow the whistle on allegedly inhumane treatment of animals at the institution.\n\nAccording to a film industry newsletter, the film was made \"in association with the Documentary Channel, and CBC Docs\". The Documentary Channel's announcement about the film stated that Demers had \"appeared four times on the Joe Rogan show, has testified before the Canadian Senate, and is being sued for $1.5 million for plotting to steal Smooshi, the walrus\".\n\nThe film premiered as part of the 2020 Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Canada it was not screened theatrically, but premiered as part of the festival's online streaming component and aired on CBC Television on May 28 as part of the network's special Hot Docs at Home series of films from the festival.\n\nIn June 2020, the film was named as the winner of 2020 Rogers Audience Award, alongside the films 9/11 Kids, There's No Place Like This Place, Anyplace, First We Eat and The Forbidden Reel, and as Overall Favourite at Hot Docs. The Audience Award allowed the film to be fast tracked in the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature category, \"provided it meets all other criteria for eligibility\". Northern Banner, a division of Raven Banner Entertainment, subsequently announced that it had acquired the rights to distribute the film in Canada, probably starting before year end. The US and international distribution rights went to Gravitas Ventures.\n\nThe film received a nomination for the Donald Brittain Award at the 9th Canadian Screen Awards in 2021.\n Question: How many awards did the film The Walrus and the Whistleblower win per this entry of information?", "output": "2.  the 2020 Rogers Audience Award, and the Donald Brittain Award in 2021."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Baker attended the University of Southern California, where he played for coach Pete Carroll's USC Trojans football team from 2003 to 2007. He was a first-team All-American as a redshirt sophomore in 2005.\n\nHe was on the official 2006 watch list for the Lombardi Award and the Outland Trophy for the best lineman. In his collegiate career Baker blocked for Reggie Bush and Matt Leinart. He was named a first-team All-Pacific-10 Conference selection by the league's coaches in 2005 and 2006. He was a recognized as a consensus first-team All-American, having received first-team honors from the Football Writers Association of America, Sporting News and CBSSports.com.\n\nGoing into his fourth year as a starter, Baker was on the Lombardi Award and Outland Trophy watch lists. He was ranked as one of the \"Top 20 Players Heading Into 2007\" by Sports Illustrated. Before his final season in 2007, Baker was already regarded by most NFL scouts as a certain top-five player in the 2008 NFL Draft.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Sam Baker, what is the Outland Trophy?", "output": "The Outland Trophy is given to the best offensive lineman in college football."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: After the widening project in 1992, Interstate 275 was increased to eight lanes on the bridge itself. However, this did not increase capacity on either end of the bridge. Backups were still seen on the Howard Frankland heading into Tampa, primarily due to a bottleneck at the SR 60/Veterans Expressway exit. On the St. Petersburg side, after a comprehensive reconstruction project that took over ten years, lane counts were increased from four lanes prior to the bridge to six lanes through downtown St. Petersburg, and eight lanes from Gandy Boulevard to the bridge.\n\nA reconstruction project was planned to begin in 2017 for the new Gateway Expressway project, a plan to build a new toll road to connect different parts in Pinellas County. However, FDOT planned to reconstruct the interstate in smaller phases rather than the original larger two-phase project and the start of construction was delayed to 2020.\n\nOnce the reconstruction project is finished in 2025, major traffic congestion on the Howard Frankland bridge is expected to be significantly reduced by the addition of new lanes. On January 7, 2021, FDOT postponed by a week to January 16, 2021 the start date for removing an overpass and the corresponding exit ramp over I-275. It had been scheduled to shut down by 8 p.m., EST, January 9, through January 10. This work was part of the U.S. $600 million toll road project. On January 16 to 17, 2021, workers removed the 4th street north interchange bridge (overpass) from 8 p.m. on January 16, to 12 p.m. on January 17. Exit 32 was closed until late 2021 while the new overpass is constructed.\n\nOverall construction on this large project began in fall 2020 and completion is expected in late 2025. A completely new bridge will carry southbound traffic. Once that bridge is completed, the existing southbound bridge will be converted to carry northbound traffic. When all traffic is moved to the final alignment, the existing northbound bridge will be removed. The newly built bridge for southbound traffic will include a separate pathway for pedestrian and bicycle traffic, and additional vehicle traffic lanes.[\n Question: Based on the reference text, what was the start date and the expected completion date of the reconstruction project on the Howard Frankland bridge.", "output": "The reconstruction project of the Howard Frankland bridge started in fall of 2020 and is expected to be completed in 2025."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jimmy John's is an American sandwich chain headquartered in Champaign, Illinois. The business was founded by Jimmy John Liautaud in 1983. After Liautaud graduated from high school, his father gave him a choice to either join the military or start a business. Liautaud, choosing the latter, initially decided to start a hot dog business, but changed to opening a sandwich business due to costs.\n\nThe Jimmy John's franchise has over 2700 locations, with 98% of them being franchises. in 2016, Roark Capital Group purchased a majority stake in the company. Later, in 2019, Inspire Brands purchased the company from Roark Capital Group for an unspecified amount.\n Question: Given this reference text about Jimmy John's, how many Jimmy John's locations are there?", "output": "There are currently 2700 locations in the Jimmy John's franchise."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: McLaren relied on the M23 during the rest of the season and for the first few races of 1977 until it was deemed necessary that the M26 was to race in light of the wilting performance of its predecessor. The redesigned car made its debut at the Spanish Grand Prix, where it proved to be a solid, if unspectacular performer. James Hunt, who initially hated the car knuckled down to improve the race pace and reliability of the M26, and throughout the season the car's performance improved noticeably. Hunt won three times during the course of the season, and scored two other podium finishes in the second half of the season. Two other potential victories were lost in Austria and Canada through reliability issues when Hunt was leading easily. At season's end, McLaren had scored 69 points and were third in the constructors' championship.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the M26, tell me how many times Hunt finished in the top 3, and explain your reasoning.", "output": "He placed in the top 3 a total of 5 times, because he won three times and had an additional two podium finishes."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The White Mandingos are a rock supergroup from Woodstock, New York consisting of rapper Murs, former Rolling Stone journalist and MTV / VH1 producer Sacha Jenkins and Bad Brains' bassist Darryl Jenifer.\n\nBiography\nThe band was formed in late 2012 when Jenkins met up at Jenifer's house in Woodstock to discover if there was anything in common between their respective favourite music genres. They considered their initial collaborations unimpressive, so Jenkins suggested collaborating with Murs, who provided lyrics.\n\nTheir first album, The Ghetto Is Tryna Kill Me was released in June 2013, and followed with a short tour of the eastern United States, including gigs in New York's New Museum, Boston and Washington DC. The album is a concept album around Tyrone White, a young black man from a New York City housing project, who subsequently obtains a recording contract and gets a white girlfriend. Jenifer and Jenkins have described the album Tommy by The Who as an important influence. Reviewing the album, Baltimore City Paper 's Baynard Woods thought the group \"actually manage to do service to punk and hip hop\" and praised the band's sense of humour, particularly the music video for their first single, \"My First White Girl\". Washington City Paper's Marcus J Moore described the video for the group's \"Warn A Brotha\" as \"a cool ode to skateboarding\".\n Question: When was The White Mandigos band formed?", "output": "The White Mandingos was formed in late 2012, and their first album 'The Guetto is Tryna Kill Me' was released in June 2013."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Luis Gonz\u00e1lez de Ubieta y Gonz\u00e1lez del Campillo (1899 \u2013 1950) was an admiral of the Spanish Republican Navy during the Spanish Civil War. He died in exile as the captain of the Panamanian merchant vessel Chiriqui, refusing to be rescued when the ship under his command sank in the Caribbean Sea not far from Barranquilla.\n Question: Who was Luis Gonzalez de Ubieta", "output": "Luis Gonzalez de Ubieta y Gonzalez del Campillo (1899 \u2013 1950) was an admiral of the Spanish Republican Navy during the Spanish Civil War. He died in exile as the captain of the Panamanian merchant vessel Chiriqui, refusing to be rescued when the ship under his command sank in the Caribbean Sea not far from Barranquilla."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The following are non-definitive lists of the actors with the highest career-film grosses. There are box-office gross revenue lists, which are not adjusted for inflation, as well as lists for the number of box-office ticket sales. Because of the long-term effects of inflation on movie theater ticket prices, a list unadjusted for inflation gives far more weight to later actors. Therefore, the gross revenue lists are largely meaningless for comparing acting careers widely separated in time, as many actors from earlier eras will never appear on a modern unadjusted list, despite their films' achieving higher commercial success when adjusted for price increases.\n Question: List 10 highest-grossing actors in the world.", "output": "The following are non-definitive lists of the actors with the highest career-film grosses. There are box-office gross revenue lists, which are not adjusted for inflation, as well as lists for the number of box-office ticket sales. Because of the long-term effects of inflation on movie theater ticket prices, a list unadjusted for inflation gives far more weight to later actors. Therefore, the gross revenue lists are largely meaningless for comparing acting careers widely separated in time, as many actors from earlier eras will never appear on a modern unadjusted list, despite their films' achieving higher commercial success when adjusted for price increases.\n\nLead roles\nThis list only includes leading roles and lead ensemble roles, including voice acting. The list is updated as of 12 January 2023.\n\nRank\tActor\tWorldwide total\tTop-grossing film\tFilms\tAverage\n1\tScarlett Johansson\t$14,519,031,650\tAvengers: Endgame ($2,794,731,755)\t33\t$439,970,656\n2\tRobert Downey Jr.\t$14,393,065,668\tAvengers: Endgame ($2,794,731,755)\t43\t$334,722,457\n3\tSamuel L. Jackson\t$14,376,505,937\tAvengers: Endgame ($2,794,731,755)\t64\t$224,632,905\n4\tZoe Salda\u00f1a\t$12,805,874,340\tAvatar ($2,899,384,102)\t30\t$426,862,478\n5\tChris Hemsworth\t$11,958,567,765\tAvengers: Endgame ($2,794,731,755)\t25\t$478,342,711\n6\tChris Pratt\t$11,742,796,476\tAvengers: Endgame ($2,794,731,755)\t23\t$510,556,369\n7\tTom Cruise\t$11,547,725,996\tTop Gun: Maverick ($1,487,575,965)\t43\t$268,551,767\n8\tChris Evans\t$11,277,890,989\tAvengers: Endgame ($2,794,731,755)\t29\t$388,892,793\n9\tTom Hanks\t$10,704,310,520\tToy Story 4 ($1,073,064,540)\t55\t$194,623,828\n10\tVin Diesel\t$10,537,096,327\tAvengers: Infinity War ($2,048,359,754)\t27\t$390,262,827"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The leaves are usually large and imposing, often lobed or deeply cut, and may be more or less pinnate. They can also be oval, spear-shaped, or in many other possible shape variations. The leaves are borne alternately on the stem. A quality of philodendrons is that they do not have a single type of leaf on the same plant. Instead, they have juvenile leaves and adult leaves, which can be drastically different from one another. The leaves of seedling philodendrons are usually heart-shaped early in the life of the plant. But after it has matured past the seedling stage, the leaves will acquire the typical juvenile leaf's shape and size. Later in the philodendron's life, it starts producing adult leaves, a process called metamorphosis. Most philodendrons go through metamorphosis gradually; there is no immediately distinct difference between juvenile and adult leaves. Aside from being typically much bigger than the juvenile leaves, the shape of adult leaves can be significantly different. In fact, considerable taxonomic difficulty has occurred in the past due to these differences, causing juvenile and adult plants to mistakenly be classified as different species.\n Question: What shape are Philodendron leaves?", "output": "They are spear-shaped"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Town of Pittsford (formerly part of the town of Northfield) was settled in 1789 and incorporated in 1796. The Village of Pittsford was incorporated in 1827. It was named by Colonel Caleb Hopkins, War of 1812 hero and subsequently Pittsford Town Supervisor, for the town of his birth, Pittsford, Vermont.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Pittsford, New York, what year was the town settled?", "output": "The town of Pittsford was settled in 1789."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 149th Boat Race took place on 6 April 2003. Held annually, the Boat Race is a side-by-side rowing race between crews from the Universities of Oxford (in dark blue) and Cambridge (in light greenish blue) along a 4.2-mile (6.8 km) tidal stretch of the River Thames in south-west London. The lead changed twice during the race, which Oxford won by one foot (30 cm), the smallest margin of victory in the history of the event. The close race has been described as \"epic,\" while Olympic gold medalist Steve Redgrave suggested that the race was the \"greatest we will see in our lifetimes.\"\n\nUmpired by the Boat Race veteran Boris Rankov, the 2003 race was the first to be scheduled on a Sunday. As a result of a collision between the Cambridge boat and a launch, a member of the Cambridge crew was replaced just two days before the race. This was the first Boat Race to feature two sets of brothers on opposing sides. In the reserve race Goldie beat Isis and Oxford won the Women's race.\n Question: Who won the 149th Boat Race?", "output": "The 149th Boat Race took place on April 6, 2003 and was held between the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge. Oxford won the face by one foot (30 cm), making it the smallest margin of victory in the history of the event."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The E.S. Hoyt House is a historic house in Red Wing, Minnesota, United States, designed by the firm of Purcell & Elmslie and built in 1913. The house is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. It is also a contributing property to the Red Wing Residential Historic District.\n\nDescription and history\nThe house is one of their more elaborate designs because its owner had a budget that allowed for lavish decoration. The result is comparable to the William Gray Purcell House and the Edward L. Powers House, both in Minneapolis. The horizontal lines of the Prairie School are more pronounced in this house; they are expressed in the bands of art glass windows on both levels and the cantilevered second story. Its owner, E.S. Hoyt, was the president of the Red Wing Stoneware Company.\n\nThe exterior is clad with brick on the first floor and red stucco on the second floor. The house has ten rooms and about 3,600 square feet (330 m2) of floor space. It has 99 diamond-paned art glass windows and a considerable amount of quarter sawn white oak wood ornamentation. The second story of the house is cantilevered over the first story. The entrance opens into a hallway that leads to a library on the left and a living room on the right. The living room, dining room, and an enclosed porch are all stretched across the front of the house and provide plenty of light through the art glass windows. Several of these windows provide panoramic views of the Mississippi River. The kitchen is located behind the dining room, although it has been remodeled since its original design. The second floor of the house has four bedrooms and two bathrooms, several of which have corner windows that expand the sense of space. The maid's room, over the kitchen, had a separate staircase.[\n Question: Given a reference text about the E.S. Hoyt House, tell me how big the inside of the house is and how many rooms it has.", "output": "The E.S. Hoyt House is about 3,600 square feet and has ten rooms."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In philosophy, praxeology or praxiology (/\u02ccpr\u00e6ksi\u02c8\u0252l\u0259d\u0292i/; from Ancient Greek \u03c0\u03c1\u1fb6\u03be\u03b9\u03c2 (praxis) 'deed, action', and -\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03af\u03b1 (-logia) 'study of') is the theory of human action, based on the notion that humans engage in purposeful behavior, contrary to reflexive behavior and other unintentional behavior.\n\nFrench social philosopher Alfred Espinas gave the term its modern meaning, and praxeology was developed independently by two principal groups: the Austrian school, led by Ludwig von Mises, and the Polish school, led by Tadeusz Kotarbi\u0144ski.\n Question: What is the name of the major school of praxiology not developed by Ludwig von Mises", "output": "The major school of praxiology not developed by Ludwig von Mises is the Polish school, which was led by Tadeusz Kotarbi\u0144ski."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The most important of Goethe's works produced before he went to Weimar were G\u00f6tz von Berlichingen (1773), a tragedy that was the first work to bring him recognition, and the novel The Sorrows of Young Werther (German: Die Leiden des jungen Werthers) (1774), which gained him enormous fame as a writer in the Sturm und Drang period which marked the early phase of Romanticism. Indeed, Werther is often considered to be the \"spark\" which ignited the movement, and can arguably be called the world's first \"best-seller\". During the years at Weimar before he met Schiller in 1794, he began Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship and wrote the dramas Iphigenie auf Tauris (Iphigenia in Tauris), Egmont, and Torquato Tasso and the fable Reineke Fuchs.To the period of his friendship with Schiller belong the conception of Wilhelm Meister's Journeyman Years (the continuation of Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship), the idyll of Hermann and Dorothea, the Roman Elegies and the verse drama The Natural Daughter. In the last period, between Schiller's death, in 1805, and his own, appeared Faust Part One (1808), Elective Affinities (1809), the West-Eastern Diwan (an 1819 collection of poems in the Persian style, influenced by the work of Hafez), his autobiographical Aus meinem Leben: Dichtung und Wahrheit (From My Life: Poetry and Truth, published between 1811 and 1833) which covers his early life and ends with his departure for Weimar, his Italian Journey (1816\u201317), and a series of treatises on art. Faust, Part Two was completed before his 1832 death and published posthumously later that year. His writings were immediately influential in literary and artistic circles.\n Question: Which is the best work from Goethe?", "output": "Assuming that literature is not an exact science and that works cannot be divided into objectively assessable works, such as good, bad or excellent, and that Goethe created a large number of pieces, I will answer the question as follows:\nThe most important works for Goethe are Goetz von Berlichingen and The Sorrows of Young Werther, since these works gave him initial fame in the Sturm und Drang period."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Parliamentary elections were held in Norway on 7 October 1957. The result was a victory for the Labour Party, which won 78 of the 150 seats in the Storting. As a result, the Gerhardsen government continued in office.\n\nThis was the last time a single party won a majority of seats on its own in a Norwegian election.\n Question: How many total seats are there?", "output": "150 seats"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Final Fantasy is a Japanese science fantasy anthology media franchise created by Hironobu Sakaguchi and developed and owned by Square Enix (formerly Square). The franchise centers on a series of fantasy and science fantasy role-playing video games. The first game in the series was released in 1987, with 15 numbered main entries having been released to date.\n Question: Based on this paragraph about the Final Fantasy series, who created it?", "output": "Hironobu Sakaguchi"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Dartmouth Night starts the college's traditional \"Homecoming\" weekend with an evening of speeches, a parade, and a bonfire. Traditionally, the freshman class builds the bonfire and then runs around it a set number of times in concordance with their class year; the class of 2009 performed 109 circuits, the class of 1999 performed 99, etc. The College officially discourages a number of student traditions of varying degrees of antiquity. During the circling of the bonfire, upperclassmen encourage the freshmen to \"touch the fire\", an action legally considered trespassing and prohibited by police officials present. At halftime of the Homecoming football game on the Saturday of the weekend, some upperclassmen encourage freshman to \"rush the field\", although no upperclassman has seen a significant rush since several injuries sustained during the 1986 rush prompted the school to ban the practice. Among the two or three students who sometimes run across the field, those who are arrested are charged with trespassing (the independent newspaper The Dartmouth Review claimed to set up a fund to automatically pay any fines associated with freshman who rush the field.) However, in 2012 this was proven false when two students rushed the field and were arrested for disorderly conduct. The Dartmouth Review ignored their emails until finally replying and denying that this fund had ever existed. These students then had to pay $300 fines out of pocket. For the 2011 Homecoming game, however, over 40 members of the Class of 2015 rushed the field at homecoming without any action taken by Safety and Security or the Hanover Police Department.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Dartmouth College traditions, which homecoming-related traditions are illegal?", "output": "Touching the bonfire, and rushing the football field during halftime of the homecoming game"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A Star Is Born (1937 film), starring Janet Gaynor and Fredric March, directed by William A. Wellman\nA Star Is Born (1954 film), starring Judy Garland and James Mason, directed by George Cukor\nA Star Is Born (1976 film), starring Barbra Streisand and Kris Kristofferson, directed by Frank Pierson\nA Star Is Born (2018 film), starring Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper, directed by Bradley Cooper\n Question: Based on the passage provided in which years the movie named 'A star is Born' was released?", "output": "1937, 1954, 1976 and 2018."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific tasks.\n\nProperties\nThough the term large language model has no formal definition, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more. LLMs are general purpose models which excel at a wide range of tasks, as opposed to being trained for one specific task (such as sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or mathematical reasoning). The skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable, seems to be a function of the amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design.\n\nThough trained on simple tasks along the lines of predicting the next word in a sentence, neural language models with sufficient training and parameter counts are found to capture much of the syntax and semantics of human language. In addition, large language models demonstrate considerable general knowledge about the world, and are able to \"memorize\" a great quantity of facts during training.\n\nHallucinations\nMain article: Hallucination (artificial intelligence)\nIn artificial intelligence in general, and in large language models in particular, a \"hallucination\" is a confident response that does not seem to be justified by the model's training data.\n\nEmergent abilities\n\nOn a number of natural language benchmarks involving tasks such as question answering, models perform no better than random chance until they reach a certain scale (in this case, measured by training computation), at which point their performance sharply increases. These are examples of emergent abilities.\nUnpredictable abilities that have been observed in large language models but that were not present in simpler models (and that were not explicitly designed into the model) are usually called \"emergent abilities\". Researchers note that such abilities \"cannot be predicted simply by extrapolating the performance of smaller models\". These abilities are discovered rather than programmed-in or designed, in some cases only after the LLM has been publicly deployed. Hundreds of emergent abilities have been described. Examples include multi-step arithmetic, taking college-level exams, identifying the intended meaning of a word, chain-of-thought prompting, decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet, unscrambling a word\u2019s letters, identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs.\n\nArchitecture and training\nLarge language models have most commonly used the transformer architecture, which, since 2018, has become the standard deep learning technique for sequential data (previously, recurrent architectures such as the LSTM were most common). LLMs are trained in an unsupervised manner on unannotated text. A left-to-right transformer is trained to maximize the probability assigned to the next word in the training data, given the previous context. Alternatively, an LLM may use a bidirectional transformer (as in the example of BERT), which assigns a probability distribution over words given access to both preceding and following context. In addition to the task of predicting the next word or \"filling in the blanks\", LLMs may be trained on auxiliary tasks which test their understanding of the data distribution such as Next Sentence Prediction (NSP), in which pairs of sentences are presented and the model must predict whether they appear side-by-side in the training corpus.\n\nThe earliest LLMs were trained on corpora having on the order of billions of words. The first model in OpenAI's GPT series was trained in 2018 on BookCorpus, consisting of 985 million words. In the same year, BERT was trained on a combination of BookCorpus and English Wikipedia, totalling 3.3 billion words. In the years since then, training corpora for LLMs have increased by orders of magnitude, reaching up to hundreds of billions or trillions of tokens.\n\nLLMs are computationally expensive to train. A 2020 study estimated the cost of training a 1.5 billion parameter model (1-2 orders of magnitude smaller than the state of the art at the time) at $1.6 million.\n\nA 2020 analysis found that neural language models' capability (as measured by training loss) increased smoothly in a power law relationship with number of parameters, quantity of training data, and computation used for training. These relationships were tested over a wide range of values (up to seven orders of magnitude) and no attenuation of the relationship was observed at the highest end of the range (including for network sizes up to trillions of parameters).\n\nApplication to downstream tasks\nBetween 2018 and 2020, the standard method for harnessing an LLM for a specific natural language processing (NLP) task was to fine tune the model with additional task-specific training. It has subsequently been found that more powerful LLMs such as GPT-3 can solve tasks without additional training via \"prompting\" techniques, in which the problem to be solved is presented to the model as a text prompt, possibly with some textual examples of similar problems and their solutions.\n\nFine-tuning\nMain article: Fine-tuning (machine learning)\nFine-tuning is the practice of modifying an existing pretrained language model by training it (in a supervised fashion) on a specific task (e.g. sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or part-of-speech tagging). It is a form of transfer learning. It generally involves the introduction of a new set of weights connecting the final layer of the language model to the output of the downstream task. The original weights of the language model may be \"frozen\", such that only the new layer of weights connecting them to the output are learned during training. Alternatively, the original weights may receive small updates (possibly with earlier layers frozen).\n\nPrompting\nSee also: Prompt engineering and Few-shot learning (natural language processing)\nIn the prompting paradigm, popularized by GPT-3, the problem to be solved is formulated via a text prompt, which the model must solve by providing a completion (via inference). In \"few-shot prompting\", the prompt includes a small number of examples of similar (problem, solution) pairs. For example, a sentiment analysis task of labelling the sentiment of a movie review could be prompted as follows:\n\nReview: This movie stinks.\nSentiment: negative\n\nReview: This movie is fantastic!\nSentiment:\n\nIf the model outputs \"positive\", then it has correctly solved the task. In zero-shot prompting, no solve examples are provided. An example of a zero-shot prompt for the same sentiment analysis task would be \"The sentiment associated with the movie review 'This movie is fantastic!' is\".\n\nFew-shot performance of LLMs has been shown to achieve competitive results on NLP tasks, sometimes surpassing prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Examples of such NLP tasks are translation, question answering, cloze tasks, unscrambling words, and using a novel word in a sentence. The creation and optimisation of such prompts is called prompt engineering.\n\nInstruction tuning\nInstruction tuning is a form of fine-tuning designed to facilitate more natural and accurate zero-shot prompting interactions. Given a text input, a pretrained language model will generate a completion which matches the distribution of text on which it was trained. A naive language model given the prompt \"Write an essay about the main themes of Hamlet.\" might provide a completion such as \"A late penalty of 10% per day will be applied to submissions received after March 17.\" In instruction tuning, the language model is trained on many examples of tasks formulated as natural language instructions, along with appropriate responses. Various techniques for instruction tuning have been applied in practice. OpenAI's InstructGPT protocol involves supervised fine-tuning on a dataset of human-generated (prompt, response) pairs, followed by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), in which a reward function was learned based on a dataset of human preferences. Another technique, \"self-instruct\", fine-tunes the language model on a training set of examples which are themselves generated by an LLM (bootstrapped from a small initial set of human-generated examples).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Large language models, when was the first model in OpenAI's GPT series trained?", "output": "2018."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: When Mohammad inherited the newly born sultanate from his father Alauddin, the land was still infested with thieves and robbers. As such he spent the entire part of his reign in establishing law in his land. He ordered his governors to never give refuge to anyone who defied his authority. This campaign was successful and at the end of his reign,the land became peaceful and law abiding. He also sat on the takht-\u0113-firoza or The Turquoise throne which was gifted to him by Kapaya Nayaka.\n Question: Based on this paragraph, what was the main focus of Mohammad Shah I's reign over his sultanate?", "output": "Mohammad was mainly focused on establishing law and order within his territory during his reign in order to remove thieves and robbers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kirchenlamitz is a town in the district of Wunsiedel, in Bavaria, Germany. It is situated in the Fichtelgebirge, 13 km northwest of Wunsiedel and 19 km south of Hof.\n Question: In which part of Germany is the town Kirchenlamitz located?", "output": "Bavaria"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Prehistory to early 19th century\nThe following table lists estimates for the population of India (including what are now Pakistan and Bangladesh) from prehistory up until 1820. It includes estimates and growth rates according to five economic historians, along with interpolated estimates and overall aggregate averages derived from their estimates.[citation needed]\n\nEstimates of historical world population\n\nYear\tAggregate average\tPeriod\tAverage\n % growth\n/ century\nPopulation\t% of World population\n10,000 BC\t1,000\t0.83%\tStone Age\t30.28\n4000 BC\t1,000,000\t30.83%\n2000 BC\t13,000,000\t37.143%\tBronze Age\t26.25\n500 BC\t25,000,000\t41.70%\tIron Age\t\n400 BC\t26,000,000\t43.96%\n200 BC\t31,000,000\t47.63%\tMaurya era\t\n1 AD\t35,000,000\t35.56%\tClassical\nera\t\n200\t41,000,000\t36.15%\n400\t47,000,000\t40%\n500\t50,000,000\t43.58%\n600\t53,000,000\t48.83%\tEarly\nmedieval\nera\t\n700\t60,000,000\t56.67%\n800\t64,000,000\t55%\n900\t70,000,000\t53.34%\n1000\t79,000,000\t30%\n1100\t83,000,000\t35%\tLate\nmedieval\nera\t\n1200\t86,000,000\t36.67%\n1300\t91,000,000\t38.34%\n1400\t97,000,000\t30%\n1500\t105,000,000\t21.67%\n1600\t140,000,000\t23.33%\tEarly modern era\t\n1650\t170,000,000\t26.15%\n1700\t140,000,000\t20%\n1750\t183,000,000\t21.53%\n1800\t200,000,000\t20%\n1820\t210,000,000\t19.09%\nThe population grew from the South Asian Stone Age in 10,000 BC to the Maurya Empire in 200 BC at a steadily increasing growth rate, before population growth slowed down in the Early Medieval Era up to 700 AD, and then started decreasing the up to 1500 AD.\n\nUnder Mughal Empire, India experienced a high economic and demographic upsurge, due to Mughal agrarian reforms that intensified agricultural production. 15% of the population lived in urban centres, higher than the percentage of the population in 19th-century British India and contemporary Europe up until the 19th century. Those estimates were criticised by Tim Dyson, who considers them exaggerations. According to Dyson, urbanisation of the Mughal empire was less than 9%\n\nUnder the reign of Akbar (reigned 1556\u20131605) in 1600, the Mughal Empire's urban population was up to 17 million people, larger than the urban population in Europe. By 1700, Mughal India had an urban population of 23 million people, larger than British India's urban population of 22.3 million in 1871. Nizamuddin Ahmad (1551\u20131621) reported that, under Akbar's reign, Mughal India had 120 large cities and 3,200 townships. A number of cities in India had a population between a quarter-million and half-million people, with larger cities including Agra (in Agra Subah) with up to 800,000 people and Dhaka (in Bengal Subah) with over 1 million people. Mughal India also had a large number of villages, with 455,698 villages by the time of Aurangzeb (reigned 1658\u20131707).\n Question: what was population of India during Mauryan Era?", "output": "It was around 31,000,000 during Maurya Era (200BC) ."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Detective Hieronymus \"Harry\" Bosch is a fictional character created by American author Michael Connelly. Bosch debuted as the lead character in the 1992 novel The Black Echo, the first in a best-selling police procedural series now numbering 24 novels.\n\nThe novels are more or less coincident in timeframe with the year in which they were published. Harry, as he is commonly known by his associates, is a veteran police homicide detective with the Los Angeles Police Department. He was named after the 15th-century Dutch artist Hieronymus Bosch.\n\nTitus Welliver portrayed the title character from 2015 to 2021 in Bosch, a television series adapted from the novels, and from 2022 in its spin-off series Bosch: Legacy.\n Question: Who played Harry Bosch in the eponymous TV series?", "output": "Titus Welliver played Detective Harry Bosch in \"Bosch\" and in \"Bosch:Legacy\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 2019, Virginia men's basketball won the NCAA Championship in \"March Madness\", the single-elimination national college basketball tournament considered by YouGov polled American viewers (as of the same year) to be the most exciting collegiate sporting event. In 2015, when Virginia first won its first Capital One Cup its teams won the 2014 College Cup, the 2015 College World Series, and the 2015 NCAA Tennis Championships. When it repeated the feat in 2019, the program won both March Madness and the 2019 Men's Lacrosse Championship.\n Question: According to this paragraph, tell me what is referred to as the most exciting collegiate sporting event.", "output": "What is referred to as the most exciting collegiate sporting event is when the Virginia men's basketball team won the NCAA Championship in 2019."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The children of Bill 101 (les enfants de la loi 101) is the name given to the generation of children whose parents immigrated to Quebec, Canada after the adoption of the 1977 Charter of the French Language (Bill 101).\n\nOne of the Charter's articles stipulates that all children under 16 must receive their primary and secondary education in French schools, unless one of the child's parents has received most of their education in English, in Canada, or the child or the child's sibling has already received a substantial part of their education in English, in Canada. If a child qualifies for a certificate of eligibility for instruction in English under one of those criteria, then the certificate is permanent and can be passed on to future generations even if the child ends up attending French instead of English school. The permanent certificate can only be granted if one of the child's parents is a Canadian citizen. In addition, children of foreign temporary residents living in Quebec on study or work permits, as well as children of diplomats, can also obtain a temporary certificate of eligibility that is only valid for the duration of their permit.\n Question: Who were the children of Bill 101", "output": "The children of Bill 101 (les enfants de la loi 101) is the name given to the generation of children whose parents immigrated to Quebec, Canada after the adoption of the 1977 Charter of the French Language (Bill 101).\n\nOne of the Charter's articles stipulates that all children under 16 must receive their primary and secondary education in French schools, unless one of the child's parents has received most of their education in English, in Canada, or the child or the child's sibling has already received a substantial part of their education in English, in Canada."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: After the Russo-Japanese War, the First Treaty was signed on 30 July 1907 by Motono Ichir\u014d, the Japanese Ambassador in Moscow, and Alexander Izvolsky, the Foreign Minister of Russian. The treaty was divided into two parts: one is open agreement, which respected the treaties concluded between the two countries and China, respected China's independence, promoted open doors, and achieved equal opportunities and another is secret agreement, which defined the scope of Japan's interests in Southern Manchuria and Russia's interests in Northern Manchuria and Japan recognized Russia's interests in Outer Mongolia, and Russia recognized Japan's interests in the Korean Peninsula.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the First Treaty that was signed after the Russo-Japanese War, was there a secret component?", "output": "Yes. The second part of the First Treaty contained a secret agreement which defined the political scope of each party's interest."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Summary\nGames\tYear\tEvents\tBest Nation\n1\t1896\t4\t Hungary\n2\t1900\t7\t Great Britain\n3\t1904\t9\t Germany\n4\t1908\t6\t Great Britain\n5\t1912\t9\t Germany\n6\t\n7\t1920\t10\t United States\n8\t1924\t11\t United States\n9\t1928\t11\t United States\n10\t1932\t11\t Japan\n11\t1936\t11\t Japan\n12\t\n13\t\n14\t1948\t11\t United States\n15\t1952\t11\t United States\n16\t1956\t13\t Australia\nGames\tYear\tEvents\tBest Nation\n17\t1960\t15\t United States\n18\t1964\t18\t United States\n19\t1968\t29\t United States\n20\t1972\t29\t United States\n21\t1976\t26\t United States\n22\t1980\t26\t East Germany\n23\t1984\t29\t United States\n24\t1988\t31\t East Germany\n25\t1992\t31\t United States\n26\t1996\t32\t United States\n27\t2000\t32\t United States\n28\t2004\t32\t United States\n29\t2008\t34\t United States\n30\t2012\t34\t United States\n31\t2016\t34\t United States\n32\t2020\t37\t United States\n Question: Which country has topped the swimming medals list in the summer olympics?", "output": "United States"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Cuban Missile Crisis, also known as the October Crisis (of 1962) (Spanish: Crisis de Octubre) in Cuba, the Caribbean Crisis (Russian: \u041a\u0430\u0440\u0438\u0431\u0441\u043a\u0438\u0439 \u043a\u0440\u0438\u0437\u0438\u0441, tr. Karibsky krizis, IPA: [k\u0250\u02c8r\u02b2ipsk\u02b2\u026aj \u02c8kr\u02b2iz\u02b2\u026as]) in Russia, or the Missile Scare, was a 35-day (October 16 \u2013 November 20, 1962) confrontation between the United States and the Soviet Union, which escalated into an international crisis when American deployments of missiles in Italy and Turkey were matched by Soviet deployments of similar ballistic missiles in Cuba. Despite the short time frame, the Cuban Missile Crisis remains a defining moment in national security and nuclear war preparation. The confrontation is often considered the closest the Cold War came to escalating into a full-scale nuclear war.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Cuban Missile Crisis, when did the crisis occur and how long did it last?", "output": "The Cuban Missile crises lasted 35 days, from October 16 to November 20, 1962."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mao Zedong (26 December 1893 \u2013 9 September 1976), also known as Chairman Mao, was a Chinese communist revolutionary who was the founder of the People's Republic of China (PRC), which he led as the chairman of the Chinese Communist Party from the establishment of the PRC in 1949 until his death in 1976. Ideologically a Marxist\u2013Leninist, his theories, military strategies, and political policies are collectively known as Maoism.\n\nMao was the son of a prosperous peasant in Shaoshan, Hunan. He supported Chinese nationalism and had an anti-imperialist outlook early in his life, and was particularly influenced by the events of the Xinhai Revolution of 1911 and May Fourth Movement of 1919. He later adopted Marxism\u2013Leninism while working at Peking University as a librarian and became a founding member of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), leading the Autumn Harvest Uprising in 1927. During the Chinese Civil War between the Kuomintang (KMT) and the CCP, Mao helped to found the Chinese Workers' and Peasants' Red Army, led the Jiangxi Soviet's radical land reform policies, and ultimately became head of the CCP during the Long March. Although the CCP temporarily allied with the KMT under the Second United Front during the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937\u20131945), China's civil war resumed after Japan's surrender, and Mao's forces defeated the Nationalist government, which withdrew to Taiwan in 1949.\n\nOn 1 October 1949, Mao proclaimed the foundation of the PRC, a Marxist\u2013Leninist single-party state controlled by the CCP. In the following years he solidified his control through the Chinese Land Reform against landlords, the Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries, the \"Three-anti and Five-anti Campaigns\", and through a truce in the Korean War, which altogether resulted in the deaths of several million Chinese. From 1953 to 1958, Mao played an important role in enforcing command economy in China, constructing the first Constitution of the PRC, launching the industrialisation program, and initiating military projects such as the \"Two Bombs, One Satellite\" project and Project 523. His foreign policies during this time were dominated by the Sino-Soviet split which drove a wedge between China and the Soviet Union. In 1955, Mao launched the Sufan movement, and in 1957 he launched the Anti-Rightist Campaign, in which at least 550,000 people, mostly intellectuals and dissidents, were persecuted. In 1958, he launched the Great Leap Forward that aimed to rapidly transform China's economy from agrarian to industrial, which led to the deadliest famine in history and the deaths of 15\u201355 million people between 1958 and 1962. In 1963, Mao launched the Socialist Education Movement, and in 1966 he initiated the Cultural Revolution, a program to remove \"counter-revolutionary\" elements in Chinese society which lasted 10 years and was marked by violent class struggle, widespread destruction of cultural artifacts, and an unprecedented elevation of Mao's cult of personality. Tens of millions of people were persecuted during the Revolution, while the estimated number of deaths ranges from hundreds of thousands to millions. After years of ill health, Mao suffered a series of heart attacks in 1976 and died at the age of 82. During the Mao era, China's population grew from around 550 million to over 900 million while the government did not strictly enforce its family planning policy.\n\nWidely regarded as one of the most influential figures of the twentieth century, Mao remains a controversial figure within and outside China. Beyond politics, Mao is also known as a theorist, military strategist, and poet. Mao has been credited with transforming China from a semi-colony to a leading world power, with greatly advanced literacy, women's rights, basic healthcare, primary education and life expectancy. However, Mao's government was responsible for vast numbers of deaths, with estimates ranging from 40 to 80 million victims through starvation, persecution, prison labour, and mass executions. During his leadership tenure, China was heavily involved with other Asian communist conflicts such as the Korean War, the Vietnam War, and the Cambodian Civil War.\n Question: Given this text of Mao Zedong, tell me how many people were killed in Mao's era through starvation, persecution, prison labour, and mass executions?", "output": "Mao's government was responsible for vast numbers of deaths, with estimates ranging from 40 to 80 million victims through starvation, persecution, prison labour, and mass executions."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sir John Evelyn (1591\u20131664) was an English politician who sat in the House of Commons at various times between 1628 and 1660. He reluctantly supported the Parliamentary side in the English Civil War.\n\nEvelyn was the son of Sir John Evelyn of Kingston, Godstone, Surrey and Marden, MP and his wife Elizabeth Stever, daughter of William Stever of Kingston upon Thames. He was baptised at Kingston upon Thames on 20 October 1591. He was admitted at Emmanuel College, Cambridge on 13 March 1606. He was a member of the Virginia Company in 1612 and of the East India Company in 1624. He was a JP for Surrey from 1624.\n Question: Who did John Evelyn support during the English Civil War?", "output": "the Parliamentary side"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The group originated in 1987, when a concert choir program was having a variety night occurring at Fullerton College. When John Tebay, the choir director, suggested that Andre Peek (1st tenor and lead vocalist at that time) and Armando Fonseca (2nd tenor) perform together, both of them decided to take Mr. Tebays advice and form a quartet, an a cappella group. Two additional members along the way, Royce Reynolds (bass) and Todd Dixon (baritone)got together and the foursome gained notice. Since then The Alley Cats have performed for many audiences, ranging from elementary school fun nights to being Grand.prize.winners on the Gong Show. Performing on the Arsenio Hall show to The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, as well as opening for Leno at his Las Vegas shows. The Alley Cats's sound has been heard as well at The White House. The Alley Cats appeared in the Richard Simmons workout video Dance Your Pants Off! performed the song Celebration.\n Question: Give this paragraph about the Alley Cats a capella group, what famous talk show hosts have they performed for?", "output": "Jay Leno and Arsenio Hall"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The viola (/vi\u02c8o\u028al\u0259/ vee-OH-l\u0259, also UK: /va\u026a\u02c8o\u028al\u0259/ vy-OH-l\u0259, Italian: [\u02c8vj\u0254\u02d0la, vi\u02c8\u0254\u02d0la]) is a string instrument that is bowed, plucked, or played with varying techniques. Slightly larger than a violin, it has a lower and deeper sound. Since the 18th century, it has been the middle or alto voice of the violin family, between the violin (which is tuned a perfect fifth above) and the cello (which is tuned an octave below). The strings from low to high are typically tuned to C3, G3, D4, and A4.\n Question: What is an string instrument that is similar to a Violin, but larger in size and with a lower and deeper sound?", "output": "The instrument you are looking for is a Viola."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Coleus rotundifolius, synonyms Plectranthus rotundifolius and Solenostemon rotundifolius, commonly known as native or country potato in Africa and called Chinese potato in India, is a perennial herbaceous plant of the mint family (Lamiaceae) native to tropical Africa. It is cultivated for its edible tubers primarily in West Africa, as well as more recently in parts of Asia, especially India, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, and Indonesia.\n\nC. rotundifolius is closely related to the coleus plants widely cultivated as ornamentals and is now again placed in the genus Coleus, after being placed in the defunct genus Solenostemon and in Plectranthus.\n Question: Given a reference text about coleus rotundifolius, what are they commonly known as?", "output": "Coleus rotundifolius are commonly known as country potato in Africa and Chinese potato in India."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kamerion Wimbley (born October 13, 1983) is a former American football outside linebacker and defensive end in the National Football League (NFL). He was drafted by the Cleveland Browns in the first round of the 2006 NFL Draft with the 13th overall pick. He also played for the Oakland Raiders and Tennessee Titans before retiring in 2015. He played college football at Florida State University.\n\nEarly years\nAttending Wichita Northwest High School in Kansas, Wimbley played defensive end, linebacker, quarterback, receiver and punter. He earned Parade and SuperPrep All-America honors during his senior season and was considered to be one of the top high school athletes in the nation. He played in the 2002 U.S. Army All-American Bowl.\n\nConsidered a four-star recruit by Rivals.com, Wimbley was ranked 58th overall among football prospects of the class of 2002. He selected Florida State over Notre Dame, Nebraska, Oklahoma and Tennessee. Wimbley graduated from Northwest High School in December 2001 (a semester early) and enrolled at Florida State in the spring of 2002.\n Question: Which positions did Kamerion Wimbley play in High school?", "output": "Kamerion Wimbley played Football in multiple positions in Wichita Northwest High School in Kansas, including: defensive end, linebacker, quarterback, receiver and punter."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The technique was originally developed by Sakichi Toyoda and was used within the Toyota Motor Corporation during the evolution of its manufacturing methodologies. It is a critical component of problem-solving training, delivered as part of the induction into the Toyota Production System. The architect of the Toyota Production System, Taiichi Ohno, described the five whys method as \"the basis of Toyota's scientific approach by repeating why five times the nature of the problem as well as its solution becomes clear.\" The tool has seen widespread use beyond Toyota, and is now used within Kaizen, lean manufacturing, lean construction and Six Sigma. The five whys were initially developed to understand why new product features or manufacturing techniques were needed, and was not developed for root cause analysis.\n Question: Given this reference paragraph about the history of the 'five whys' technique, what was the original intention of asking the 'five whys'?", "output": "The original intention of asking the 'five whys' was to understand why new product features or manufacturing techniques were needed in Toyota's manufacturing practices."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Larissa Ilinichna Volpert (Russian: \u041b\u0430\u0440\u0438\u0441\u0430 \u0418\u043b\u044c\u0438\u043d\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0430 \u0412\u043e\u043b\u044c\u043f\u0435\u0440\u0442; 30 March 1926 \u2013 1 October 2017) was a Soviet chess Woman Grandmaster and Russian and Estonian philologist. She was a three time Soviet women's chess champion (1954, 1958, and 1959).\n\nLife\nBorn in Leningrad, she learned chess from her older brother and received chess instruction at the Leningrad Pioneers Palace. In 1947, she tied for first at the Leningrad Women's Championship. She played her first USSR Women's Championship in 1949 and finished equal fifth. In 1954, she won her first USSR Women's Championship. She scored 2\u20130 against Nina Hru\u0161kov\u00e1-B\u011blsk\u00e1 in the 1954 USSR v. Czechoslovakia match. In 1958 she shared the USSR Women's Championship title, and in 1959 she won for the third time, her second outright victory.\n\nVolpert earned the Woman International Master title in 1954 and the Woman Grandmaster title in 1978. She had a degree in philology from Leningrad University and since 1977 taught Russian philology at the University of Tartu, Estonia. Her major works are about Pushkin's and Lermontov's poetry, especially in their connections to French literature. She died at the age of 91 on 1 October 2017.[3\n Question: Given a reference text about Larissa Ilinichna Volpert, tell me what game she played, when she was champion, and what titles she earned.", "output": "Larissa Ilinichna Volpert played chess and was the Soviet women's chess champion in 1954, 1958 and 1959. She earned the titles of Woman International Master and Woman Grandmaster for her accomplishments in the game of chess."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Christopher John Minns (born 17 September 1979) is an Australian politician serving as the 47th and current premier of New South Wales since March 2023. He has been the leader of the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party (ALP) since June 2021 and a member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly (MLA) for the division of Kogarah since 2015. He was previously the deputy mayor of Hurstville from 2007 to 2008.\nMinns was first elected at the 2015 New South Wales state election, and was elected unopposed as leader of the Labor Party in leadership election in June 2021, following the resignation of Jodi McKay. He led the party to victory at the 2023 state election.\nThe son of a school principal, Minns was raised in the St George region of Sydney in the suburb of Penshurst. He studied at Marist College Kogarah. He holds a bachelors degree from the University of New England in Armidale and attended Princeton University in the United States where he was awarded a Masters in Public Policy (2012\u201313).\nMinns is married and has three sons with his wife Anna. Upon his return from Princeton, while his wife pursued her own business opportunities, Minns became the carer of his sons before nominating for parliament.\nHe joined the Australian Labor Party in 1998 when he was 18 years old and was elected as the member for Kogarah in 2015.\nMinns is a supporter of NRL club the St George Illawarra Dragons.\n Question: Tell me about the new premier of New South Wales", "output": "Chris Minns led the Labor party to victory at the 2023 NSW state election and becomes the 47th premier of New South Wales.  Minns is married with three sons and is a supporter of the NRL club, St George Illawarra Dragons."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: By early 1964, the Beatles were international stars and had achieved unprecedented levels of critical and commercial success. They became a leading force in Britain's cultural resurgence, ushering in the British Invasion of the United States pop market, and soon made their film debut with A Hard Day's Night (1964). A growing desire to refine their studio efforts, coupled with the untenable nature of their concert tours, led to the band's retirement from live performances in 1966. At this time, they produced records of greater sophistication, including the albums Rubber Soul (1965), Revolver (1966) and Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band (1967), and enjoyed further commercial success with The Beatles (also known as \"the White Album\", 1968) and Abbey Road (1969). The success of these records heralded the album era, as albums became the dominant form of record consumption over singles; they also increased public interest in psychedelic drugs and Eastern spirituality, and furthered advancements in electronic music, album art and music videos. In 1968, they founded Apple Corps, a multi-armed multimedia corporation that continues to oversee projects related to the band's legacy. After the group's break-up in 1970, all principal former members enjoyed success as solo artists and some partial reunions have occurred. Lennon was murdered in 1980 and Harrison died of lung cancer in 2001. McCartney and Starr remain musically active.\n Question: How long after the release of the album \u201cAbbey Road\u201d did The Beatles break up?", "output": "One year after releasing Abbey Road (1969), the Beatles broke up (1970)"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Richard Brandon Morris (July 24, 1904 \u2013 March 3, 1989) was an American historian best known for his pioneering work in colonial American legal history and the early history of American labor. In later years, he shifted his research interests to the constitutional, diplomatic, and political history of the American Revolution and the making of the United States Constitution.\n\nBackground\nRichard Brandon Morris was born on July 24, 1904, in New York City. He attended high school at Towsend Harris Hall in New York City. In 1924, he received a BA degree from City College. In 1925, he received an MA from Columbia University, and in 1930 he received a PhD in history at the university with Evarts Boutell Greene as his dissertation advisor. Morris' dissertation, published by Columbia University Press as Studies in the History of American Law, with Special Reference to the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries (1930), still defines the research agenda for historians working on early American law, though at the time it attracted bitter denunciations from law school practitioners of legal historym, including Julius Goebel, Jr. and Karl Llewellyn, both then Columbia Law School faculty members.\n Question: Given a reference text about Richard Brandon Morris, tell me what when and where he was born as well as the different colleges and universities he attended.", "output": "Richard Brandon Morris was born on July 24, 1904. He attended City College and Columbia University."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1984, Apple debuted the operating system that is now known as the \"\"Classic\"\" Mac OS with its release of the original Macintosh System Software. The system, rebranded \"\"Mac OS\"\" in 1997, was pre-installed on every Macintosh until 2002 and offered on Macintosh clones for a short time in the 1990s. Noted for its ease of use, it was also criticized for its lack of modern technologies compared to its competitors.\n\nThe current Mac operating system is macOS, originally named \"\"Mac OS X\"\" until 2012 and then \"\"OS X\" until 2016. Developed between 1997 and 2001 after Apple's purchase of NeXT, Mac OS X brought an entirely new architecture based on NeXTSTEP, a Unix system, that eliminated many of the technical challenges that the classic Mac OS faced. The current macOS is pre-installed with every Mac and receives a major update annually. It is the basis of Apple's current system software for its other devices \u2013 iOS, iPadOS, watchOS, and tvOS.\n Question: In what year did Apple debut the 'Mac Operating System'?", "output": "In 1984, Apple debuted the operating system that is now known as the \"Classic\" Mac OS"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kieran Liam McAnespie (born 11 September 1979) is a football manager and former player. Capable of playing as a full-back or winger, he appeared in the Scottish Premier League for St Johnstone and Hearts. Born in England, he represented the Scotland U21 national team internationally\n Question: Where does Kieran Liam McAnespie come from?", "output": "Kieran Liam McAnespie was born in England."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A volleyball court is 9 m \u00d7 18 m (29.5 ft \u00d7 59.1 ft), divided into equal square halves by a net with a width of one meter (39.4 in). The top of the net is 2.43 m (7 ft 11+11\u204416 in) above the centre of the court for men's competition, and 2.24 m (7 ft 4+3\u204416 in) for women's competition, varied for veterans and junior competitions.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the dimensions of a volleyball court, is there a difference between the hight of the net for men's competitions vs women's competitions?", "output": "The net is 19 cm higher for men's competitions (243 cm) than for women's competitions (224 cm)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Nintendo was founded in 1889 as Nintendo Karuta by craftsman Fusajiro Yamauchi and originally produced handmade hanafuda playing cards. After venturing into various lines of business during the 1960s and acquiring a legal status as a public company, Nintendo distributed its first console, the Color TV-Game, in 1977. It gained international recognition with the release of Donkey Kong in 1981 and the Nintendo Entertainment System and Super Mario Bros. in 1985.\n Question: Given this reference text about a video game, when was Donkey Kong released?", "output": "1981"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Different theorists have different categorizations and conceptualizations of defence mechanisms. Large reviews of theories of defence mechanisms are available from Paulhus, Fridhandler and Hayes (1997) and Cramer (1991). The Journal of Personality published a special issue on defence mechanisms (1998).\n\nIn the first definitive book on defence mechanisms, The Ego and the Mechanisms of Defence (1936), Anna Freud enumerated the ten defence mechanisms that appear in the works of her father, Sigmund Freud: repression, regression, reaction formation, isolation, undoing, projection, introjection, turning against one's own person, reversal into the opposite, and sublimation or displacement.\n\nSigmund Freud posited that defence mechanisms work by distorting id impulses into acceptable forms, or by unconscious or conscious blockage of these impulses. Anna Freud considered defense mechanisms as intellectual and motor automatisms of various degrees of complexity, that arose in the process of involuntary and voluntary learning.\n\nAnna Freud introduced the concept of signal anxiety; she stated that it was \"not directly a conflicted instinctual tension but a signal occurring in the ego of an anticipated instinctual tension\". The signalling function of anxiety was thus seen as crucial, and biologically adapted to warn the organism of danger or a threat to its equilibrium. The anxiety is felt as an increase in bodily or mental tension, and the signal that the organism receives in this way allows for the possibility of taking defensive action regarding the perceived danger.\n\nBoth Freuds studied defence mechanisms, but Anna spent more of her time and research on five main mechanisms: repression, regression, projection, reaction formation, and sublimation. All defence mechanisms are responses to anxiety and how the consciousness and unconscious manage the stress of a social situation.\n\nRepression: when a feeling is hidden and forced from the consciousness to the unconscious because it is seen as socially unacceptable\nRegression: falling back into an early state of mental/physical development seen as \"less demanding and safer\"\nProjection: possessing a feeling that is deemed as socially unacceptable and instead of facing it, that feeling or \"unconscious urge\" is seen in the actions of other people\nReaction formation: acting the opposite way that the unconscious instructs a person to behave, \"often exaggerated and obsessive\". For example, if a wife is infatuated with a man who is not her husband, reaction formation may cause her to \u2013 rather than cheat \u2013 become obsessed with showing her husband signs of love and affection.\nSublimation: seen as the most acceptable of the mechanisms, an expression of anxiety in socially acceptable ways\nOtto F. Kernberg (1967) developed a theory of borderline personality organization of which one consequence may be borderline personality disorder. His theory is based on ego psychological object relations theory. Borderline personality organization develops when the child cannot integrate helpful and harmful mental objects together. Kernberg views the use of primitive defence mechanisms as central to this personality organization. Primitive psychological defences are projection, denial, dissociation or splitting and they are called borderline defence mechanisms. Also, devaluation and projective identification are seen as borderline defences.\n\nIn George Eman Vaillant's (1977) categorization, defences form a continuum related to their psychoanalytical developmental level.[non-primary source needed] They are classified into pathological, immature, neurotic and \"mature\" defences.\n\nRobert Plutchik's (1979) theory views defences as derivatives of basic emotions, which in turn relate to particular diagnostic structures. According to his theory, reaction formation relates to joy (and manic features), denial relates to acceptance (and histrionic features), repression to fear (and passivity), regression to surprise (and borderline traits), compensation to sadness (and depression), projection to disgust (and paranoia), displacement to anger (and hostility) and intellectualization to anticipation (and obsessionality).\n\nThe Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV) published by the American Psychiatric Association (1994) includes a tentative diagnostic axis for defence mechanisms. This classification is largely based on Vaillant's hierarchical view of defences, but has some modifications. Examples include: denial, fantasy, rationalization, regression, isolation, projection, and displacement.\n Question: What are the defense mechanisms?", "output": "There are multiple definitions of defense mechanism based on different theories. Generally, defense mechanisms are human responses responses to anxiety and how the consciousness and unconscious manage the stress of a social situation. Some of the most common defense mechanisms include:\n\nRepression: forcing a feeling from the consciousness to the unconscious because it is seen as socially unacceptable\n\nRegression: falling back into an early state of mental/physical development seen as less demanding and safer\n\nProjection: possessing a feeling that is deemed as socially unacceptable and instead of facing it, that feeling or \"unconscious urge\" is seen in the actions of other people\n\nReaction formation: acting the opposite way that the unconscious instructs a person to behave, \"often exaggerated and obsessive\". For example, if a wife is infatuated with a man who is not her husband, reaction formation may cause her to \u2013 rather than cheat \u2013 become obsessed with showing her husband signs of love and affection.\n\nSublimation: seen as the most acceptable of the mechanisms, an expression of anxiety in socially acceptable ways"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Modern K-pop \"idol\" culture began in the 1990s, as K-pop idol music grew into a subculture that amassed enormous fandoms of teenagers and young adults. After a slump in early idol music, from 2003, TVXQ and BoA started a new generation of K-pop idols that broke the music genre into the neighboring Japanese market and continue to popularize K-pop internationally today. With the advent of online social networking services and South Korean TV shows, the current spread of K-pop and South Korean entertainment, known as the Korean Wave, is seen not only in East Asia and Southeast Asia, but also in Pakistan, Bangladesh, India, Latin America, North Africa, Southern Africa and East Africa, the Middle East and throughout the Western world, gaining an international audience.\n Question: How popular is K-pop around the world?", "output": "K-pop is a popular music genre that has a fan following across the whole world. It spread to worldwide fandom with the advent and proliferation of online social networking services."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: David Moses ben Meir Dyte (c.\u20091770\u20131830) was an English Jewish quill merchant who distinguished himself by preventing the assassination attempt on George III by James Hadfield on 15 May 1800.\n\nDyte was attending Colley Cibber's play She Would and She Would Not at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane when Hadfield fired a horsepistol at the King. Dyte, seated directly behind the shooter, struck the assailant and deflected the shot. It is said that Dyte asked as his sole reward the right to sell opera tickets, then a monopoly at the royal disposal. In 1802 he was appointed 'Purveyor of Pens and Quills to the Royal Household'. The incident was immortalised in the play Jew Dyte by Harold Rubinstein.\n\nDyte was the father of Henry Dyte, who served as Honorary Secretary to the Blind Society; and the grandfather of D. H. Dyte, Surgeon to the Jewish Board of Guardians, and Charles Dyte, a parliamentarian in the colony of Victoria.\n Question: Given a reference text about David Moses ben Meir Dyte, tell me what he is known for.", "output": "David Moses ben Meir Dyte is known for preventing an assassination attempt by James Hadfield on George III."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: 2022 Mazar-i-Sharif mosque bombing\n\nOn 21 April 2022, a powerful bomb rocked the Shia Seh Dokan mosque in Mazar-i-Sharif, Balkh Province, Afghanistan killing at least 31 people and injuring more than 87 others. The Islamic State \u2013 Khorasan Province claimed responsibility via Telegram.\n\nWorshippers were performing the Zuhr prayer inside the mosque when the bomb exploded. Authorities counted 31 dead and at least 87 injured, six of whom were wounded critically.\n\nThe bombing was part of a series of attacks on the same day, including two explosions targeting Taliban officers in Kunduz and Khogyani District and a bombing that injured two Shia children in Kabul.\n Question: Given a reference text about the 2022 Mazar-i-Sharif mosque bombing, how many people were injured and killed?", "output": "At least 31 people were killed and more than 87 others were injured in the 2022 Mazar-i-Sharif mosque bombing."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, also known as the Seven Wonders of the World or simply the Seven Wonders, is a list of seven notable structures present during classical antiquity. The first known list of seven wonders dates back to the 2nd\u20131st century BC.\n\nWhile the entries have varied over the centuries, the seven traditional wonders are the Great Pyramid of Giza, the Colossus of Rhodes, the Lighthouse of Alexandria, the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, the Temple of Artemis, the Statue of Zeus at Olympia, and the Hanging Gardens of Babylon. Using modern-day countries, two of the wonders were located in Greece, two in Turkey, two in Egypt, and one in Iraq. Of the seven wonders, only the Pyramid of Giza, which is also by far the oldest of the wonders, still remains standing, with the others being destroyed over the centuries. There is scholarly debate over the exact nature of the Hanging Gardens, and there is doubt as to whether they existed at all.\n Question: What are the seven wonders of the world?", "output": "The seven wonders of the world consist of; the Great Pyramid of Giza, The Colossus of Rhodes, the Lighthouse of Alexandria, the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, the Temple of Artemis, the Statue of Zeus at Olympia, and the Hanging Gardens of Babylon."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Blockchains are typically managed by a peer-to-peer (P2P) computer network for use as a public distributed ledger, where nodes collectively adhere to a consensus algorithm protocol to add and validate new transaction blocks. Although blockchain records are not unalterable, since blockchain forks are possible, blockchains may be considered secure by design and exemplify a distributed computing system with high Byzantine fault tolerance. A blockchain was created by a person (or group of people) using the name (or pseudonym) Satoshi Nakamoto in 2008 to serve as the public distributed ledger for bitcoin cryptocurrency transactions, based on previous work by Stuart Haber, W. Scott Stornetta, and Dave Bayer. The implementation of the blockchain within bitcoin made it the first digital currency to solve the double-spending problem without the need of a trusted authority or central server. The bitcoin design has inspired other applications and blockchains that are readable by the public and are widely used by cryptocurrencies. The blockchain may be considered a type of payment rail.\n Question: Given this paragraph about blockchain, how did blockchain influence bitcoin cryptocurrency?", "output": "Blockchain is the technology that enables the existence of cryptocurrency and bitcoin is the name of the best-known cryptocurrency. The implementation of bitcoin using blockchain made it the first digital currency to solve the double-spending problem without the need of a trusted authority or central server. Bitcoin has inspired other applications and blockchains that are highly available, public, and are widely used by cryptocurrencies."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Thomas Attewell (7 November 1869 \u2013 6 July 1937) was an English first-class cricketer. Attewell was a right-handed batsman who bowled right-arm medium pace. He was born at Keyworth, Nottinghamshire.\n\nHis brother William played first-class cricket for Nottinghamshire and the Marylebone Cricket Club, as well as Test cricket for England. His cousin Walter Attewell played first-class cricket for Nottinghamshire.\n Question: What was the first name of Thomas Attewell's brother and cousin?", "output": "William and Walter"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Mauritius fody (Foudia rubra) is a rare species of bird in the weaver family. It is endemic to the island of Mauritius. It is classified by BirdLife International as being endangered. It is also on the United States' Endangered Species List with an endangered status.\n\nThis bird is 14 centimeters long. Breeding males are olive brown with a red head, breast and rump patch and black lores. While females, non-breeding males and juveniles are olive brown with white wing bars and a brown bill.\n\nThe bird lives in several types of forest, including degraded areas, as well as plantations. Stands of Japanese cedar (Cryptomeria japonica) have replaced native vegetation and now provide protection against predators. It feeds on insects like grasshoppers, beetle larvae, caterpillars, and also spiders. Berries are eaten regularly by some individuals. It feeds on nectar regularly, using its specialised brush-tipped tongue.\n\nThe bird is a weaver, the male and female cooperating to weave each nest, from material like grass, moss and small twigs.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Mauritius fody, tell me what they look like.", "output": "Male and female Mauritius fody birds have different appearances. Breeding males are olive brown with red heads, breast and rump patches, and black lores. Females and non-breeding males are olive brown with white wing bars and brown bills."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Operation Aurora was a series of cyber attacks conducted by advanced persistent threats such as the Elderwood Group based in Beijing, China, with ties to the People's Liberation Army. First publicly disclosed by Google on January 12, 2010, in a blog post, the attacks began in mid-2009 and continued through December 2009.\n\nThe attack was aimed at dozens of other organizations, of which Adobe Systems, Akamai Technologies, Juniper Networks, and Rackspace have publicly confirmed that they were targeted. According to media reports, Yahoo, Symantec, Northrop Grumman, Morgan Stanley, and Dow Chemical were also among the targets.\n\nAs a result of the attack, Google stated in its blog that it plans to operate a completely uncensored version of its search engine in China \"within the law, if at all,\" and acknowledged that if this is not possible, it may leave China and close its Chinese offices. Official Chinese sources claimed this was part of a strategy developed by the U.S. government.\n\nThe attack was named \"Operation Aurora\" by Dmitri Alperovitch, Vice President of Threat Research at cybersecurity company McAfee. Research by McAfee Labs discovered that \"Aurora\" was part of the file path on the attacker's machine that was included in two of the malware binaries McAfee said were associated with the attack. \"We believe the name was the internal name the attacker(s) gave to this operation,\" McAfee Chief Technology Officer George Kurtz said in a blog post.\n\nAccording to McAfee, the primary goal of the attack was to gain access to and potentially modify source code repositories at these high-tech, security, and defense contractor companies. \"[The SCMs] were wide open,\" says Alperovitch. \"No one ever thought about securing them, yet these were the crown jewels of most of these companies in many ways\u2014much more valuable than any financial or personally identifiable data that they may have and spend so much time and effort protecting.\"\n\nHistory\n\nFlowers left outside Google China's headquarters after its announcement it might leave the country\nOn January 12, 2010, Google revealed on its blog that it had been the victim of a cyber attack. The company said the attack occurred in mid-December and originated from China. Google stated that over 20 other companies had been attacked; other sources have since cited that more than 34 organizations were targeted. As a result of the attack, Google said it was reviewing its business in China. On the same day, United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton issued a brief statement condemning the attacks and requesting a response from China.\n\nOn January 13, 2010, the news agency All Headline News reported that the United States Congress plans to investigate Google's allegations that the Chinese government used the company's service to spy on human rights activists.\n\nIn Beijing, visitors left flowers outside of Google's office. However, these were later removed, with a Chinese security guard stating that this was an \"illegal flower tribute\". The Chinese government has yet to issue a formal response, although an anonymous official stated that China was seeking more information on Google's intentions.\n\nAttackers involved\nFurther information: Cyberwarfare by China\nTechnical evidence including IP addresses, domain names, malware signatures, and other factors, show Elderwood was behind the Operation Aurora attack. The \"Elderwood\" group was named by Symantec (after a source-code variable used by the attackers), and is referred to as the \"Beijing Group\" by Dell Secureworks. The group obtained some of Google's source code, as well as access to information about Chinese activists. Elderwood also targeted numerous other companies in the shipping, aeronautics, arms, energy, manufacturing, engineering, electronics, financial, and software sectors.\n\nThe \"APT\" designation for the Chinese threat actors responsible for attacking Google is APT17.\n\nElderwood specializes in attacking and infiltrating second-tier defense industry suppliers that make electronic or mechanical components for top defense companies. Those firms then become a cyber \"stepping stone\" to gain access to top-tier defense contractors. One attack procedure used by Elderwood is to infect legitimate websites frequented by employees of the target company \u2013 a so-called \"water hole\" attack, just as lions stake out a watering hole for their prey. Elderwood infects these less-secure sites with malware that downloads to a computer that clicks on the site. After that, the group searches inside the network to which the infected computer is connected, finding and then downloading executives' e-mails and critical documents on company plans, decisions, acquisitions, and product designs.\n\nAttack analysis\nIn its blog posting, Google stated that some of its intellectual property had been stolen. It suggested that the attackers were interested in accessing Gmail accounts of Chinese dissidents. According to the Financial Times, two accounts used by Ai Weiwei had been attacked, their contents read and copied; his bank accounts were investigated by state security agents who claimed he was under investigation for \"unspecified suspected crimes\". However, the attackers were only able to view details on two accounts and those details were limited to things such as the subject line and the accounts' creation date.\n\nSecurity experts immediately noted the sophistication of the attack. Two days after the attack became public, McAfee reported that the attackers had exploited purported zero-day vulnerabilities (unfixed and previously unknown to the target system developers) in Internet Explorer and dubbed the attack \"Operation Aurora\". A week after the report by McAfee, Microsoft issued a fix for the issue, and admitted that they had known about the security hole used since September. Additional vulnerabilities were found in Perforce, the source code revision software used by Google to manage their source code.\n\nVeriSign's iDefense Labs claimed that the attacks were perpetrated by \"agents of the Chinese state or proxies thereof\".\n\nAccording to a diplomatic cable from the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, a Chinese source reported that the Chinese Politburo directed the intrusion into Google's computer systems. The cable suggested that the attack was part of a coordinated campaign executed by \"government operatives, public security experts and Internet outlaws recruited by the Chinese government.\" The report suggested that it was part of an ongoing campaign in which attackers have \"broken into American government computers and those of Western allies, the Dalai Lama and American businesses since 2002.\" According to The Guardian's reporting on the leak, the attacks were \"orchestrated by a senior member of the Politburo who typed his own name into the global version of the search engine and found articles criticising him personally.\"\n\nOnce a victim's system was compromised, a backdoor connection that masqueraded as an SSL connection made connections to command and control servers running in Illinois, Texas, and Taiwan, including machines that were running under stolen Rackspace customer accounts. The victim's machine then began exploring the protected corporate intranet that it was a part of, searching for other vulnerable systems as well as sources of intellectual property, specifically the contents of source code repositories.\n\nThe attacks were thought to have definitively ended on Jan 4 when the command and control servers were taken down, although it is not known at this point whether or not the attackers intentionally shut them down. However, the attacks were still occurring as of February 2010.\n\nResponse and aftermath\nThe German, Australian, and French governments publicly issued warnings to users of Internet Explorer after the attack, advising them to use alternative browsers at least until a fix for the security hole was made. The German, Australian, and French governments considered all versions of Internet Explorer vulnerable or potentially vulnerable.\n\nIn an advisory on January 14, 2010, Microsoft said that attackers targeting Google and other U.S. companies used software that exploits a hole in Internet Explorer. The vulnerability affects Internet Explorer versions 6, 7, and 8 on Windows 7, Vista, Windows XP, Server 2003, Server 2008 R2, as well as IE 6 Service Pack 1 on Windows 2000 Service Pack 4.\n\nThe Internet Explorer exploit code used in the attack has been released into the public domain, and has been incorporated into the Metasploit Framework penetration testing tool. A copy of the exploit was uploaded to Wepawet, a service for detecting and analyzing web-based malware operated by the computer security group at the University of California, Santa Barbara. \"The public release of the exploit code increases the possibility of widespread attacks using the Internet Explorer vulnerability,\" said George Kurtz, CTO of McAfee, of the attack. \"The now public computer code may help cybercriminals craft attacks that use the vulnerability to compromise Windows systems.\"\n\nSecurity company Websense said it identified \"limited public use\" of the unpatched IE vulnerability in drive-by attacks against users who strayed onto malicious Web sites. According to Websense, the attack code it spotted is the same as the exploit that went public last week.[clarification needed] \"Internet Explorer users currently face a real and present danger due to the public disclosure of the vulnerability and release of attack code, increasing the possibility of widespread attacks,\" said George Kurtz, chief technology officer of McAfee, in a blog update. Confirming this speculation, Websense Security Labs identified additional sites using the exploit on January 19. According to reports from Ahnlab, the second URL was spread through the Instant Messenger network Misslee Messenger, a popular IM client in South Korea.\n\nResearchers have created attack code that exploits the vulnerability in Internet Explorer 7 (IE7) and IE8\u2014even when Microsoft's recommended defensive measure (Data Execution Prevention (DEP)) is turned on.[dubious \u2013 discuss] According to Dino Dai Zovi, a security vulnerability researcher, \"even the newest IE8 isn't safe from attack if it's running on Windows XP Service Pack 2 (SP2) or earlier, or on Windows Vista RTM (release to manufacturing), the version Microsoft shipped in January 2007.\"\n\nMicrosoft admitted that the security hole used had been known to them since September. Work on an update was prioritized and on Thursday, January 21, 2010, Microsoft released a security patch aiming to counter this weakness, the published exploits based on it and a number of other privately reported vulnerabilities. They did not state if any of the latter had been used or published by exploiters or whether these had any particular relation to the Aurora operation, but the entire cumulative update was termed critical for most versions of Windows, including Windows 7.\n\nSecurity researchers continued to investigate the attacks. HBGary, a security firm, released a report in which they claimed to have found some significant markers that might help identify the code developer. The firm also said that the code was Chinese language based but could not be specifically tied to any government entity.\n\nOn February 19, 2010, a security expert investigating the cyber-attack on Google, has claimed that the people behind the attack were also responsible for the cyber-attacks made on several Fortune 100 companies in the past one and a half years. They have also tracked the attack back to its point of origin, which seems to be two Chinese schools, Shanghai Jiao Tong University and Lanxiang Vocational School. As highlighted by The New York Times, both of these schools have ties with the Chinese search engine Baidu, a rival of Google China. Both Lanxiang Vocational and Jiaotong University have denied the allegation.\n\nIn March 2010, Symantec, which was helping investigate the attack for Google, identified Shaoxing as the source of 21.3% of all (12 billion) malicious emails sent throughout the world.\n\nGoogle retrospective\nOn October 3, 2022, Google on YouTube released a six-episode series covering the events that occurred during Operation Aurora, with commentary from insiders who dealt with the attack, though the series primary focus was to reassure the Google-using public that measures are in place to counter hacking attempts.\n Question: Given this article about Operation Aurora, which companies were targeted in the attacks?", "output": "Google, Adobe Systems, Akamai Technologies, Juniper Networks, Rackspace, Yahoo, Symantec, Northrop Grumman, Morgan Stanley, and Dow Chemical appear to have been targted in these attacks.  Some pubically confirmed this while others were claimed to be targeted in media reports."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Islamization of Iran occurred as a result of the Muslim conquest of Persia in 633\u2013654. It was a long process by which Islam, though initially rejected, eventually spread among the population on the Iranian Plateau. Iranian peoples have maintained certain pre-Islamic traditions, including their language and culture, and adapted them with Islamic codes. These two customs and traditions merged as the \"Iranian Islamic\" identity.\n Question: When did Iranians convert to Islam?", "output": "Unlike the popular opinion that Arabs converted Iranians to Islam after defeating the Sasanian Empire, Iranians continued to practice their native religions for many centuries. The conversion to Islam was a slow process which was aided by differentiated tax systems for Muslims and non-muslims."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The dead man zone is the area directly around a bushfire that is likely to burn within five minutes given the current wind conditions or an anticipated change in wind direction. The distance this zone extends from the firefront is highly dependent on terrain, windspeed, fuel type and composition, relative humidity and ambient temperature, and can range from under 100 metres (330 ft) to well over 1 kilometre (3,300 ft).\n Question: Based on this article, considerations of what time zone is used for determining what land is in the dead man zone?", "output": "A five minute period in the future is used for creating the dead man zone."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Roman Forum, also known by its Latin name Forum Romanum (Italian: Foro Romano), is a rectangular forum (plaza) surrounded by the ruins of several important ancient government buildings at the center of the city of Rome. Citizens of the ancient city referred to this space, originally a marketplace, as the Forum Magnum, or simply the Forum.\n\nFor centuries the Forum was the center of day-to-day life in Rome: the site of triumphal processions and elections; the venue for public speeches, criminal trials, and gladiatorial matches; and the nucleus of commercial affairs. Here statues and monuments commemorated the city's great men. The teeming heart of ancient Rome, it has been called the most celebrated meeting place in the world, and in all history. Located in the small valley between the Palatine and Capitoline Hills, the Forum today is a sprawling ruin of architectural fragments and intermittent archaeological excavations attracting 4.5 million or more sightseers yearly.\n Question: Why is the forum in Rome named the forum?", "output": "The Forum in Rome is the location of the ruins of the ancient city of Rome.  The forum is derived from Latin, meaning rectangular plaza.  The plaza was the center of activity in Rome.  Staging speeches trials and public gatherings."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Beijing (/be\u026a\u02c8d\u0292\u026a\u014b/ bay-JING; Chinese: \u5317\u4eac; pinyin: B\u011bij\u012bng; Mandarin pronunciation: [pe\u0300\u026a.t\u0255i\u0301\u014b] (listen)), alternatively romanized as Peking (/pi\u02d0\u02c8k\u026a\u014b/ pee-KING), is the capital of the People's Republic of China. With over 21 million residents, Beijing is the world's most populous national capital city and is China's second largest city after Shanghai. It is located in Northern China, and is governed as a municipality under the direct administration of the State Council with 16 urban, suburban, and rural districts. Beijing is mostly surrounded by Hebei Province with the exception of neighboring Tianjin to the southeast; together, the three divisions form the Jingjinji megalopolis and the national capital region of China.\n Question: What name is Beijing also known by?", "output": "B\u011bij\u012bng is alternatively romanized as Peking and is the capital of the People's Republic of China"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tamil is one of the longest-surviving classical languages of India. A. K. Ramanujan described it as \"the only language of contemporary India which is recognizably continuous with a classical past\". The variety and quality of classical Tamil literature has led to it being described as \"one of the great classical traditions and literatures of the world\". Recorded Tamil literature has been documented for over 2000 years. The earliest period of Tamil literature, Sangam literature, is dated from c. 300 BC until AD 300. It has the oldest extant literature among Dravidian languages. The earliest epigraphic records found on rock edicts and 'hero stones' date from around the 3rd century BC. About 60,000 of the approximately 100,000 inscriptions found by the Archaeological Survey of India in India are in Tamil Nadu. Of them, most are in Tamil, with only about 5 percent in other languages. Tamil language inscriptions written in Brahmi script have been discovered in Sri Lanka and on trade goods in Thailand and Egypt. The two earliest manuscripts from India, acknowledged and registered by the UNESCO Memory of the World register in 1997 and 2005, were written in Tamil.\n Question: How old is Tamil language?", "output": "Tamil language is one of the oldest and longest surviving classical language and is existing from 300 BC. Tamil as a literature has been documented for over 2000 years. Earliest epigraphic records found on rocks date back to 3rd century BC. It is also the official language of Singapore and Sri lanka apart from Tamil Nadu state in India."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Boston Marathon began on 19 April 1897, and was inspired by the success of the first marathon competition in the 1896 Summer Olympics. It is the world's oldest run annual marathon, and ranks as one of the world's most prestigious road racing events. Its course runs from Hopkinton in southern Middlesex County, to Copley Square in Boston. Johnny Hayes' victory at the 1908 Summer Olympics also contributed to the early growth of long-distance running and marathoning in the United States. Later that year, races around the holiday season including the Empire City Marathon held on New Year's Day 1909 in Yonkers, New York, marked the early running craze referred to as \"marathon mania\". Following the 1908 Olympics, the first five amateur marathons in New York City were held on days that held special meanings: Thanksgiving Day, the day after Christmas, New Year's Day, Washington's Birthday, and Lincoln's Birthday.\n\nFrank Shorter's victory in the marathon at the 1972 Summer Olympics would spur national enthusiasm for the sport more intense than that which followed Hayes' win 64 years earlier. In 2014, an estimated 550,600 runners completed a marathon within the United States. This can be compared to 143,000 in 1980. Today marathons are held all around the world on a nearly weekly basis.\n Question: What is the world's oldest annual marathon based on the reference text below?", "output": "The Boston Marathon is the world's oldest annual marathon, beginning on April 19th 1897."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Georg Friedrich Parrot (15 July 1767 \u2013 8 July 1852) was a German scientist, the first rector of the Imperial University of Dorpat (today Tartu, Estonia) in what was then the Governorate of Livonia of the Russian Empire.\n\nEducation\nGeorges-Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Parrot was born in M\u00f6mpelgard (now Montb\u00e9liard) (then part of the Duchy of W\u00fcrttemberg, from 1806 in France). His father, a surgeon by profession and the local duke's physician in ordinary, had a respectable position in the society becoming the mayor of his hometown. As the family was Protestants, they sent Georg Friedrich to study physics and mathematics at the University of Stuttgart in Stuttgart, the capital of the Duchy (1782\u20131786).\n Question: Given a reference text about Georg Friedrich Parrot, tell me when and where he was born as well as what he studied.", "output": "Georg Friedrich Parrot was born on July 15, 1767 in M\u00f6mpelgard. He studied physics and mathematics at the University of Stuttgart."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As a road cyclist, Mark Cavendish turned professional in 2005, and achieved eleven wins in his first professional season. Cavendish has won 34 Tour de France stages, tying him for first on the all-time list with Eddy Merckx, contributing to a third-highest total of fifty-three Grand Tour stage victories. He won the Men's road race at the 2011 road world championships, becoming the second male British rider to do so after Tom Simpson. Cavendish has also won the points classification in all three of the grand tours: the 2010 Vuelta a Espa\u00f1a, the 2011, and 2021 Tours de France and the 2013 Giro d'Italia. In 2012, he became the first person to win the final Champs-\u00c9lys\u00e9es stage in the Tour de France in four consecutive years.\n Question: Given this paragraph about cycling, who holds the record for the most Tour de France stage victories?", "output": "Mark Cavendish is tied with Eddie Merckx for the most Tour de France stage victories with 34."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: By the ninth century CE, a string of dynastic states, including the earliest Hausa states, stretched across the sub-Saharan savannah from the western regions to central Sudan. The most powerful of these states were Ghana, Gao, and the Kanem-Bornu Empire. Ghana declined in the eleventh century, but was succeeded by the Mali Empire which consolidated much of western Sudan in the thirteenth century. Kanem accepted Islam in the eleventh century.\n Question: How many years passed from Ghana's decline to the Mali Empire consolidating western Sudan?", "output": "Ghana declined in the 11th century, Mali Empire consolidated much of western Sudan in the 13th century, so 2 centuries passed which equals 200 years."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A cryptocurrency, crypto-currency, or crypto is a digital currency designed to work as a medium of exchange through a computer network that is not reliant on any central authority, such as a government or bank, to uphold or maintain it. It is a decentralized system for verifying that the parties to a transaction have the money they claim to have, eliminating the need for traditional intermediaries, such as banks, when funds are being transferred between two entities.\n Question: What is Cryptocurrency?", "output": "Cryptocurrency is the digital currency built on the blockchain or other network which allows people to exchange and trade for goods. There are over 1000 different kinds of cryptocurrency around the world and each of them is designed differently. Currently, the popular cryptocurrencies are Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Dogecoin."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Africa is the world's second-largest and second-most populous continent, after Asia in both aspects. At about 30.3 million km2 (11.7 million square miles) including adjacent islands, it covers 20% of Earth's land area and 6% of its total surface area. With 1.4 billion people as of 2021, it accounts for about 18% of the world's human population. Africa's population is the youngest amongst all the continents; the median age in 2012 was 19.7, when the worldwide median age was 30.4. Despite a wide range of natural resources, Africa is the least wealthy continent per capita and second-least wealthy by total wealth, behind Oceania. Scholars have attributed this to different factors including geography, climate, tribalism, colonialism, the Cold War, neocolonialism, lack of democracy, and corruption. Despite this low concentration of wealth, recent economic expansion and the large and young population make Africa an important economic market in the broader global context.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Africa, why Africa's per capita  GDP is low?", "output": "While there are several reasons high population growth, corruption and colonialism and neocolonialism are some of the the factors."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Willie Mays World Series Most Valuable Player (MVP) Award is given to the Major League Baseball (MLB) player deemed to have the most impact on his team's performance in the World Series, which is the final round of the MLB postseason. The award was first presented in 1955 as the SPORT Magazine Award, but is now decided during the final game of the Series by a committee of reporters and officials present at the game. On September 29, 2017, it was renamed in honor of Willie Mays in remembrance of the 63rd anniversary of The Catch, which occurred the year prior to the award's debut; Mays never won the award himself.\n Question: Given the numerous awards in Major League Baseball, what is the Willie Mays World Series Most Valuable Player (MVP) Award?", "output": "The Willie Mays World Series Most Valuable Player Award is given to the Major League Baseball player deemed to have the most impact on his team's performance in the World Series."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Anoop Nautiyal is a social activist based in Dehradun, Uttarakhand. His work has focused on issues of environment and sustainable development of the state. He is the founder of Social Development Communities Foundation, an NGO and think tank based in Dehradun, which works works at the grassroots level for the empowerment of communities, as well as the sustainable development of the mountain state of Uttarakhand. He is a prolific social communicator and has also been a columnist for the Indian Express.\n\nHe had a brief foray in the political space and contested the 2017 Uttarakhand Legislative Assembly election.\n\nAnoop Nautiyal attended Shri Ram College of Commerce and National Institute of Fashion Technology in New Delhi.[1\n Question: Given a reference text about Anoop Nautiyal, what did his work focus on?", "output": "Anoop Nautiyal's work has focused on issues regarding the environment and sustainable development."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Seinfeld (/\u02c8sa\u026anf\u025bld/ SYNE-feld) is an American television sitcom created by Larry David and Jerry Seinfeld. It aired on NBC from July 5, 1989, to May 14, 1998, over nine seasons and 180 episodes. It stars Seinfeld as a fictionalized version of himself and focuses on his personal life with three of his friends: best friend George Costanza (Jason Alexander), former girlfriend Elaine Benes (Julia Louis-Dreyfus) and his neighbor from across the hall, Cosmo Kramer (Michael Richards). It is set mostly in an apartment building in Manhattan's Upper West Side in New York City. It has been described as \"a show about nothing\", often focusing on the minutiae of daily life. Interspersed in earlier episodes are moments of stand-up comedy from the fictional Jerry Seinfeld, frequently using the episode's events for material.\n Question: Who is the main cast in Seinfeld TV show?", "output": "Jerry Seinfeld\nJason Alexander\nJulia Louis-Dreyfus\nMichael Richards"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Doleshwor Mahadeva (Nepali: \u0921\u094b\u0932\u0947\u0936\u094d\u0935\u0930 \u092e\u0939\u093e\u0926\u0947\u0935) is a Hindu Temple of Lord Shiva located in Suryabinayak, south eastern part of Bhaktapur District, Nepal, and is believed to be the head part of Kedarnath temple located in Uttarakhand, India.\n\nHistory\nFor 4000 years people have been searching for the head of the Panch Kedar temples, a bull who was Shiva in reality, who assumed the shape of a bull to avoid the five Pandava brothers, the heroes of the Mahabharat. The legend goes back to the fabled battle of Kurukshetra fought between the five Pandava brothers and their cousins, the 100 Kaurava brothers, which is the pivot of the Mahabharata. Many folk legends related to the Garhwal region, Lord Shiva and the creation of the Panch Kedar temples are narrated.\n\nA folk legend about Panch Kedar relates to the Pandavas, the heroes of the Hindu epic Mahabharata. The Pandavas defeated and slayed their cousins \u2014 the Kauravas in the epic Kurukshetra war. They wished to atone for the sins of committing fratricide (gotra hatya) and Br\u0101hmanahatya (killing of Brahmins \u2014 the priest class) during the war. Thus, they handed over the reins of their kingdom to their kin and left in search of lord Shiva and to seek his blessings. First, they went to the holy city of Varanasi (Kashi), believed to be Shiva's favourite city and known for its Kashi Vishwanath Temple. But, Shiva wanted to avoid them as he was deeply incensed by the death and dishonesty at the Kurukshetra war and was, therefore, insensitive to Pandavas' prayers. Therefore, he assumed the form of a bull (Nandi) and hid in the Garhwal region.\n\nNot finding Shiva in Varanasi, the Pandavas went to Garhwal Himalayas. Bhima, the second of the five Pandava brothers, then standing astride two mountains started to look for Shiva. He saw a bull grazing near Guptakashi (\u201chidden Kashi\u201d \u2014 the name derived from the hiding act of Shiva). Bhima immediately recognized the bull to be Shiva. Bhima caught hold of the bull by its tail and hind legs. But the bull-formed Shiva disappeared into the ground to later reappear in parts, with the hump raising in Kedarnath, the arms appearing in Tungnath, the face showing up at Rudranath, the nabhi (navel) and stomach surfacing in Madhyamaheshwar and the hair appearing in Kalpeshwar. The Pandavas pleased with this reappearance in five different forms, built temples at the five places for venerating and worshipping Shiva. The Pandavas were thus freed from their sins. It is also believed that the fore portions of Shiva appeared at Doleshwor Mahadeva Temple, Bhaktapur district Nepal.\n\nA variant of the tale credits Bhima of not only catching the bull, but also stopping it from disappearing. Consequently, the bull was torn asunder into five parts and appeared at five locations in the Kedar Khand of Garhwal region of the Himalayas. After building the Panch Kedar Temples, the Pandavas meditated at Kedarnath for salvation, performed yagna (fire sacrifice) and then through the heavenly path called the Mahapanth (also called Swargarohini), attained heaven or salvation.[citation needed]. The Panch Kedar Temples are constructed in the North-Indian Himalayan Temple architecture with the Kedarnath, Tungnath and Madhyamaheshwar temples looking similar.\n\nAfter completing the pilgrimage of Lord Shiva's darshan at the Panch Kedar Temples, it is an unwritten religious rite to visit Lord Vishnu at the Badrinath Temple, as a final affirmatory proof by the devotee that he has sought blessings of Lord Shiva.\n\nResearch and findings\nThe Hindu activist Bharat Jangam had been researching and claiming that Doleshwar Mahadev is the head part of Kedarnath based on the surprising links between Kedarnath and Doleshwor. The Sculptures of Shive found in both shrines are 4,000 years old. Even a stone scripture found in Doleshwor was written in Sanskrit and Old Nepalese. The priests in both shrines are selected from India's southern states of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Both priests affix the word \u2018ling\u2019 after their names to convey their proximity to the god as his worshipper and both temples have a cluster of five Shiva shrines. The main deity of both priests is Birbhadra, a companion of Shiva, according to Hindu scriptures. \n\nRecognition\nOn August 22, 2009 the head priest of Kedarnath peeth Shree 1008 Jagat Guru Bheemashankarling Shivacharya unveiled the plaque claiming that Doleswore Mahadev, located in Jangam math Bhaktapur, is the head part of Shri Kedarnath. He performed Rudra Abhishek, a special worshipping at the Doleshwor temple situated in Sipadol village of Bhaktapur district. This is also mentioned in the inscription (Sheela Lekh) at Doleshwar Mahadev. Thousands of devotees have been thronging in the Doleswor Mahadev Temple.\n Question: Have you heard of Doleshwor Mahadeva temple?", "output": "Yes, Doleshwor Mahadeva (Nepali: \u0921\u094b\u0932\u0947\u0936\u094d\u0935\u0930 \u092e\u0939\u093e\u0926\u0947\u0935) is a Hindu Temple of Lord Shiva located in Suryabinayak, south eastern part of Bhaktapur District, Nepal"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mary's death in 1558 led to her half-sister Elizabeth taking the throne. Unlike Mary, Elizabeth was firmly in the reformist camp and quickly reimplemented many of Edward's reforms. Philip, no longer co-monarch, deemed Elizabeth a heretic and illegitimate ruler of England. In the eyes of the Catholic Church, Henry had never officially divorced Catherine, making Elizabeth illegitimate. It is alleged that Philip supported plots to have Elizabeth overthrown in favour of her Catholic cousin and heir presumptive, Mary, Queen of Scots. These plans were thwarted when Elizabeth had Mary imprisoned in 1567. Mary was forced to abdicate the crown of Scotland in favour of her son James VI. The first documented suggestion of what was called the Enterprise of England was in the summer of 1583 when, flushed with pride of his victory in the Azores, \u00c1lvaro de Baz\u00e1n, Marquis of Santa Cruz addressed the suggestion to Philip II of taking advantage of it to attack England.\n Question: From this paragraph, tell me when Mary died and when did Elizabeth had Mary, Queen of Scots imprisoned. Also, who supported plots to have Elizabeth overthrown?", "output": "Mary (Bloody Mary) died in 1558 and Elizabeth had Mary (Queen of Scots) imprisoned in 1567. Philip Supported plots to have Elizabeth overthrown in favor of her catholic cousin,  who he thought was the true heir: Mary, Queen of Scots."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Skandhas (Sanskrit) or khandhas (P\u0101\u1e37i) means \"heaps, aggregates, collections, groupings\". In Buddhism, it refers to the five aggregates of clinging (Pa\u00f1cup\u0101d\u0101nakkhandh\u0101), the five material and mental factors that take part in the rise of craving and clinging. They are also explained as the five factors that constitute and explain a sentient being\u2019s person and personality, but this is a later interpretation in response to sarvastivadin essentialism.\n\nThe five aggregates or heaps of clinging are:\n\n1. form (or material image, impression) (rupa)\n2. sensations (or feelings, received from form) (vedana)\n3. perceptions (samjna)\n4. mental activity or formations (sankhara)\n5. consciousness (vijnana).\n Question: what are the 5 skandhas?", "output": "The five skhandas are form, sensations, perceptions, mental activity and consciousness"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Nkem-Nkechukwu Ojougboh (born August 11, 1987) is Nigerian professional basketball player. He was drafted in the second round (ninth pick) at the 2010 NBA Development League Draft by the Utah Flash, an affiliate of the Utah Jazz and Atlanta Hawks. Collegiately, Ojougboh played for the Northeastern University Huskies men's basketball team from 2007-2010 and for the University of Texas San Antonio in 2005. He played for the NBA Development League team Utah Flash in the 2010/11 NBA D-League season, and for the Tulsa 66ers in 2011/12. Ojougboh was named to the CAA All-Academic First Team from 2005-2008. Ojougboh is the son of Cairo Ojougboh and Grace Ojougboh. He has two brothers Omam Ojougboh, Orieka Ojougboh and a sister Rimma Ojougboh. Out of high school, Ojougboh committed to the University of Texas at San Antonio, after also being recruited by Boise State, Cornell University, Harvard University, Arizona State University and Washington State. He transferred to Northeastern after his Freshman campaign at University of Texas San Antonio.\n Question: Which team has drafted Nkem-Nkechukwu Ojougboh?", "output": "Nkem-Nkechukwu Ojougboh was drafted by the Utah Flash in 2010."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: New York, often called New York City or NYC, is the most populous city in the United States. With a 2020 population of 8,804,190 distributed over 300.46 square miles (778.2 km2), New York City is the most densely populated major city in the United States and more than twice as populous as Los Angeles, the nation's second-largest city. New York City is located at the southern tip of New York State. It constitutes the geographical and demographic center of both the Northeast megalopolis and the New York metropolitan area, the largest metropolitan area in the U.S. by both population and urban area. With over 20.1 million people in its metropolitan statistical area and 23.5 million in its combined statistical area as of 2020, New York is one of the world's most populous megacities, and over 58 million people live within 250 mi (400 km) of the city. New York City is a global cultural, financial, entertainment, and media center with a significant influence on commerce, health care and life sciences, research, technology, education, politics, tourism, dining, art, fashion, and sports. Home to the headquarters of the United Nations, New York is an important center for international diplomacy, and is sometimes described as the capital of the world.\n Question: Given the following paragraph about New York City, how many people live in the city?", "output": "As of 2020, there are over 20.1 million people living in the metropolitan statistical area of New York City. When considering the combined statistical area of New York City as of 2020, it is 23.5 million people."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A triathlon is an endurance multisport race consisting of swimming, cycling, and running over various distances. Triathletes compete for fastest overall completion time, racing each segment sequentially with the time transitioning between the disciplines included\n Question: Given this paragraph about the sport of triathlon, what are the individual sports make up a triathlon", "output": "Triathlon is a multi-sport discipline consisting of three sports performed back to back without rest. An event is made up of swimming, followed by cycling and then running. Athletes transition between the individual sports as quickly as possible, with the winner completing the course in the fastest time."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 2018 UCI Track Cycling World Championships were the World Championships for track cycling in 2018. They took place in the Netherlands at the Omnisport Apeldoorn from 28 February to 4 March 2018.\n Question: Where was the 2018 UCI Track Cycling World Championships held?", "output": "The UCI Track Cycling World Championships were held in Omnisport Apeldoorn velodrome, in the Netherlands."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ingwelala is a private stakeholder nature reserve on the bank of the Nhlaralumi River in the heart of the lowveld, about 65 km from the town of Hoedspruit. The reserve of some 3,000 hectares forms part of the Bushbuckridge Municipality, and adjoins the Umbabat Nature Reserve and the unfenced Kruger National Park.\n\nIngwelala includes the following game farms:\n\nArgyle \u2013 1,499 ha registered as Ingwelala Shareblock Ltd.\nBuffelsbed \u2013 1,018 ha registered as Buffelsbed Shareblock Ltd.\nGoedehoop \u2013 372 ha registered as Ingwelala Holdings Ltd.\nSi Bon \u2013 257 ha registered as Si Bon Property Holdings Ltd\n Question: Given a reference text about Ingwelala, tell me which game farms are on the reserve.", "output": "Argyle, Buffelsbed, Goedehoop, and Si Bon are the game farms on Ingwelala."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The preconditioning for the financial crisis were complex and multi-causal. Almost two decades prior, the U.S. Congress had passed legislation encouraging financing for affordable housing. However, in 1999, parts of the Glass-Steagall legislation, which had been adopted in 1933, were repealed, permitting financial institutions to commingle their commercial (risk-averse) and proprietary trading (risk-taking) operations. Arguably the largest contributor to the conditions necessary for financial collapse was the rapid development in predatory financial products which targeted low-income, low-information homebuyers who largely belonged to racial minorities. This market development went unattended by regulators and thus caught the U.S. government by surprise.\n Question: What caused the 2007-2008 financial crisis?", "output": "Arguably the largest contributor to the conditions necessary for the financial collapse was the rapid development of predatory financial products which targeted low-income, low-information homebuyers who largely belonged to racial minorities."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Scholars generally acknowledge six cradles of civilization. Mesopotamia, Ancient Egypt, Indus Valley, and Ancient China are believed to be the earliest in the Old World. Cradles of civilization in the New World are the Caral-Supe civilization of coastal Peru and the Olmec civilization of Mexico. All of the cradles of civilization depended upon agriculture for sustenance (except possibly Caral-Supe which may have depended initially on marine resources). All depended upon farmers producing an agricultural surplus to support the centralized government, political leaders, priests, and public works of the urban centers of the civilization.\n\nLess formally, the term \"cradle of civilization\" is often used to refer to other historic ancient civilizations, such as Greece or Rome, which have both been called the \"cradle of Western civilization\".\n Question: What is the oldest known civilization?", "output": "The oldest known human civilizations are known to exist in Mesopotamia (Modern day Iraq), Indus Valley (a region located in modern-day Pakistan), Ancient Egypt and Ancient China."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Some time after Donkey Kong Country, Donkey Kong is relaxing on the beach, until he is ambushed by the Kremlings. He gets kidnapped and brought to Kaptain K. Rool, King K. Rool's moniker in this game, who then demands the Banana Hoard he unsuccessfully tried to steal in the previous game for a ransom from the Kongs. Instead of complying, Diddy Kong and his friend Dixie resolve to go to the Kremling's home island, Crocodile Isle, to rescue Donkey Kong. Together, they travel through Crocodile Isle and are helped on their way by an assortment of animals to defeat Kaptain K. Rool. Diddy and Dixie eventually battle and defeat K. Rool, releasing Donkey Kong in the process. K. Rool manages to escape though, and shortly after, Diddy and Dixie confront him in the Lost World, a secret area powered by a geyser at the heart of Crocodile Isle. They once again defeat K. Rool, who is hurled into the geyser, causing it to clog up and explode. The explosion causes all of Crocodile Isle to sink, as the Kongs watch K. Rool escape on a small sailboat.\n Question: Given this article on Donkey Kong Country 2, who is the villain of the plot and where does the story take place?", "output": "Kaptain K. Rool is the villain and kidnaps Donkey Kong. The story takes places on the Kremling's home island, Crocodile Isle."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pultenaea empetrifolia is a species of flowering plant in the family Fabaceae and is endemic to the south-west of Western Australia. It is a spindly, prostrate or spreading shrub with down-curved, cylindrical, grooved leaves and yellow to orange and red flowers.\n\nDescription\nPultenaea empetrifolia is a spindly, prostrate or spreading shrub that typically grows to a height of up to 40 cm (16 in) and has glabrous stems. The leaves are cylindrical and curved strongly downwards with one or two grooves along the lower surface, 3\u20134.5 mm (0.12\u20130.18 in) long and 0.6\u20131.0 mm (0.024\u20130.039 in) wide with stipules at the base. The flowers are yellow to orange and red, and sessile or on a pedicel about up to 0.5 mm (0.020 in) long. The sepals are hairy and 4.0\u20134.6 mm (0.16\u20130.18 in) long with hairy bracteoles 1.5\u20133 mm (0.059\u20130.118 in) long at the base. The standard petal is 8.0\u20138.5 mm (0.31\u20130.33 in) long, the wings 7\u20138 mm (0.28\u20130.31 in) long and the keel 6.2\u20137.0 mm (0.24\u20130.28 in) long. Flowering occurs from September to October and the fruit is a pod.\n Question: Given a reference text about Pultenaea empetrifolia, tell me the colors of its flowers.", "output": "The Pultenaea empetrifolia has yellow to orange and red flowers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Malibamat'so River is a river in northern Lesotho. Its origin is near to the South African border, where it drains the eastern slopes of the Maloti Range. It flows southwards past the village of Lejone, and eventually joins the Senqu River 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) northeast of Mohlanapeng.\n\nThe Malibamat'so forms the northern arm of the Katse Dam reservoir, a part of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project. Katse is Africa's highest elevation dam at 1,993 metres (6,539 ft) above sea level. Here the river is joined by the Bokong/Bokung River. Downstream the Malibamat'so's left bank tributaries are the Matsoku and Semenanyane Rivers, before it forms a right bank tributary of the Senqu/Orange River.\n Question: Malibamat'so River", "output": "Malibamat'so River is a river in northern Lesotho. Its origin is near to the South African border, where it drains the eastern slopes of the Maloti Range. It flows southwards past the village of Lejone, and eventually joins the Senqu River 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) northeast of Mohlanapeng.\n\nThe Malibamat'so forms the northern arm of the Katse Dam reservoir, a part of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project. Katse is Africa's highest elevation dam at 1,993 metres (6,539 ft) above sea level. Here the river is joined by the Bokong/Bokung River."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wabuska is an unincorporated community in Lyon County, Nevada, United States. The zip code is 89447, which it shares with nearby Yerington.\n\nWabuska (Washo language, White Grass) was established in the early 1870s. A post office was opened on September 18, 1874. In 1881, the town served as the principal Mason Valley supply center on the newly constructed Carson and Colorado Railroad of a line that went from Hazen to Mina. When copper was discovered in Mason Valley, the town became the northern terminus of the new Nevada Copper Belt Railroad, built 1909\u20131911. Wabuska waned with declining mining activity in the 1920s.\n\nSeveral buildings from Wabuska, most notably the Wabuska Railroad Station, were relocated to Carson City and incorporated as the Nevada State Railroad Museum.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Wabuska, Nevada, when was a post office first opened in the town?", "output": "September 18, 1874"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The King's Building is a Grade I listed building that forms part of the Strand Campus of King's College London in the United Kingdom. Originally named the College Building, the King's Building was designed by Sir Robert Smirke in the course of the College's foundation in 1829. As the founding building, it was built between 1829 and 1831 on land granted to King's College by the Government to complete the riverside frontage of Somerset House.\n\nThere are today a total of eight floors in the King's Building: Basement level, Ground level, Levels 1 to 4, Level 4U and Level 6. The King's Building houses a number of administrative departments (Estates & Facilities Offices, Admissions Office, Accommodation and Cashiers' Office), lecture theatres (most notably the Edmond J. Safra Lecture Theatre and Anatomy Lecture Theatre), the College Chapel, the Great Hall, various function rooms (Old Council Room, Committee Room, River Room, Somerset Room, St David's Room), study rooms and a catering outlet.\n Question: What is the top floor of the King's Building based on this article? What floor is found below that?", "output": "The top floor is Level 6, and below that is level 4U."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hawaiian scale is an expression of the height of a wind wave affecting water. It is the expression conventionally used by surfers in Hawaii and is also used in Australia and parts of South Africa.\n\nThe expression, always given in feet, is a scaled figure corresponding to roughly half the actual measured or estimated height of a wave's face (trough to crest height). Thus, a \"3-foot\" wave is roughly six feet high (in actuality a height of ~1.8 m), i.e., head-high to a 6-foot (~180 cm) person; a \"2-foot\" wave is roughly four feet high (height of ~1.2 m), i.e., chest-high to such a person; and a \"6- to 8-foot\" wave would be 2 to approaching 3 times head-high to such a person (height of ~3.5 to 5 m). As wave height increases, however, so does the difficulty of judging that height, and as wave height approaches 20 feet (40 ft faces or 12 m height), the range of absolute wave heights corresponding to a given scaled expression tends to widen.\n Question: Given this reference text about the Hawaiian scale, how tall is a wave that is six foot Hawaiian?", "output": "A wave that is six foot Hawaiian would be twelve feet tall from crest to trough"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mongolia (/m\u0252\u014b\u02c8\u0261o\u028ali\u0259/ (listen)) is a landlocked country in East Asia, bordered by Russia to the north and China to the south. It covers an area of 1,564,116 square kilometres (603,909 square miles), with a population of just 3.3 million, making it the world's most sparsely populated sovereign nation. Mongolia is the world's largest landlocked country that does not border a closed sea, and much of its area is covered by grassy steppe, with mountains to the north and west and the Gobi Desert to the south. Ulaanbaatar, the capital and largest city, is home to roughly half of the country's population.\n Question: Which is the most sparsely populates nation?", "output": "Mongolia"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Tesla Model 3 is an electric car produced by American marque Tesla. It is a battery-powered four-door sedan that is considered a mid-size car in the US and a large family car in Europe, and is marketed in the compact-executive segment. Limited production of the Model 3 began in mid-2017, with the first production vehicle rolling off the assembly line on July 7, 2017. The official launch and delivery of the first 30 cars took place on July 28.\n\nThe base Model 3 delivers an EPA-rated all-electric range of 272 miles (438 km) and the Long Range version delivers 358 miles (576 km). According to Tesla, the Model 3 carries full self-driving hardware, with periodic software updates adding functionality.\n\nThe Model 3 was marketed as being more affordable to more people than previous models by Tesla. Since early 2020, the Model 3 is the bestselling electric car in world history, and, in June 2021, became the first electric car to pass the 1 million global sales milestone. The Model 3 has been the world's top selling plug-in electric car (PEV) for three years running, from 2018 to 2020. It has also been the bestselling PEV in the United States for three consecutive years, 2018 to 2020, the top selling PEV in Europe in 2019, and the bestselling PEV in China in 2020.\n Question: Given this paragraph about a Tesla Model 3, tell me what the EPA-rated ranges are for the various models.", "output": "The Tesla Model 3 comes in a base model with a range of 272 miles (438 km) and also comes in a Long Range version that delivers 358 miles (576 km)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Manchester City F.C. 3\u20132 Queens Park Rangers F.C was the final match of the 2011\u201312 Premier League season, contested at the Etihad Stadium between Manchester City and Queens Park Rangers on 13 May 2012. This match is considered the greatest Premier League moment in history.\n\nCity entered the match in first place on goal difference, being level on points with local rivals Manchester United, and needed to match United's result to win the league. Meanwhile, QPR entered the match one spot above the relegation zone, knowing that a draw would secure safety at the expense of Bolton Wanderers. City won the match in dramatic fashion, reversing a 2\u20131 deficit by scoring two goals in stoppage time, with the winner being scored by Sergio Ag\u00fcero, to clinch their first league title since the 1967\u201368 season. The win began a period of dominance in English football for City, with the club winning five more Premier League titles over the subsequent 10 years.\n\nThe match, and more specifically the final goal of the match, has repeatedly been described as the greatest moment in Premier League history. The terms \"93:20\" and \"Agueroooooo\" have entered Manchester City folklore as a result, the former describing the exact second of the match at which point the final goal was scored, while the latter was commentator Martin Tyler's live response to the goal.\n Question: Which player scored the Premier League winning goal for Manchester City vs. QPR in 2012?", "output": "Sergio Aguero, in his first season for the club following a \u00a330+ million move from Athletico Madrid ended the season as the club's leading goal scorer. Ten plus years later, he ended as the club's all-time leading goal scorer and holds the record for number of Premier League Hat-tricks. \n\nIn 2012, Manchester City and local rivals, Manchester United were leading a two horse race to win the Premier League. Manchester United had previously won the league title 19 times where as this would be Manchester City's first title in over 40 years. \n\nIt was Manchester City's to lose as they hosted relegation-bounded QPR at the Etihad Stadium and all was going to plan going into the first half following Zabaleta's goal to make it 1-0 (an unlikely goal scorer to say the least). \n\nHowever, following a mistake from centre back, Joleon Lescott, a dramatic red card for former Manchester City player, Joey Barton and a surprise second goal from QPR to make it 2-1, Manchester City looked as though they'd let the title slip through their hands. \n\nManchester United had won their away game at Sunderland 1-0 so it was all down the blue half of Manchester's result. \n\nJust after the 90th minute, they were in stoppage time which was extended due to the commotions with Joey Barton lashing out at Carlos Tevez and Sergio Aguero. \n\nStriker, Edin Dzeko, scored a header from a David Silva cross to make it 2-2, but to many, this felt as too little, too late. \n\nLate drama unfolded as Mario Balotelli registered his one and only assist in almost 4 years at the club as he laid it off to Aguero who scored the winning goal with the last kick of the game to make it 3-2. \n\nManchester City went on to win the league and QPR avoided relegation despite the loss due to results elsewhere."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As an amateur, Fury represented both England and Ireland. Fury represented Ireland three times at international level. He was based out of the Holy Family Boxing Club in Belfast, Northern Ireland, and later switched to the Smithboro Club in County Monaghan, Ireland. In a double international match against an experienced Polish team in 2007, the Irish team lost 12\u20136 overall; Fury, however, was victorious in both his fights in Rzesz\u00f3w and Bia\u0142ystok. In another Irish match against the US, Fury won his bout by knockout. He won bronze at the AIBA Youth World Boxing Championships in 2006.\n\nIn England, while representing Jimmy Egan's Boxing Academy in Wythenshawe, Manchester, he participated in the senior national championships in 2006 but was beaten by David Price 22\u20138. In May 2007, he won the EU Junior Championship, defeating Istvan Bernath in the final. In July 2007 he won silver at the European Junior Championship, losing to Maxim Babanin in the final.\n\nAs a junior, Fury was ranked number three in the world behind the Russians Maxim Babanin and Andrey Volkov, but did not get the chance to represent Great Britain at the 2008 Olympics because each country is restricted to one boxer per weight division and David Price was selected. Price came up through the amateur Olympic programme. Fury also unsuccessfully tried to qualify for Ireland. Speaking in 2011, Fury said \"I should have gone to the Olympic games in 2008 and won a gold medal for Ireland, but I was denied the chance to go and do it\" He was also forced to withdraw from the Irish national championships after officials from the Holy Trinity Boxing Club in West Belfast, the club of the then Irish amateur heavyweight champion, submitted a protest regarding his eligibility as he was not born in Ireland.\n\nFury won the ABA super-heavyweight title in 2008 by defeating Damien Campbell 19:1. He turned professional later that year. Feeling disillusioned with amateur boxing, he decided not to wait for the 2012 Olympics. He finished with an amateur record of 31\u20134 (26 KOs).\n Question: What was Tyson Fury's fight record as an amateur?", "output": "He finished with an amateur record of 31\u20134 (26 KOs"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In graph theory and computer science, an adjacency list is a collection of unordered lists used to represent a finite graph. Each unordered list within an adjacency list describes the set of neighbors of a particular vertex in the graph. This is one of several commonly used representations of graphs for use in computer programs.\n Question: What is an adjacency list?", "output": "In graph theory and computer science, an adjacency list is a collection of unordered lists used to represent a finite graph."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jean Marie Ralph F\u00e9thi\u00e8re is a Haitian politician. He is a Senator from the north and a member of the ruling PHTK party. On September 23, 2019, while trying to leave Parliament amid a crowd as the government was voting to confirm a new prime minister, F\u00e9thi\u00e8re drew a handgun and fired toward the crowd. Chery Dieu-Nalio, a photographer for the Associated Press, suffered injuries to his face from bullet fragments, while a security guard named Leon Leblanc was also injured.\n Question: In which country is Jean Marie Ralph F\u00e9thi\u00e8re a politician?", "output": "Haiti"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Wagner Group (Russian: \u0413\u0440\u0443\u043f\u043f\u0430 \u0412\u0430\u0433\u043d\u0435\u0440\u0430, tr. Gruppa Vagnera), also known as PMC Wagner (Russian: \u0427\u0412\u041a \u00ab\u0412\u0430\u0433\u043d\u0435\u0440\u00bb, tr. ChVK \u00abVagner\u00bb; lit.\u2009'Wagner Private Military Company'), is a Russian paramilitary organization. It is variously described as a private military company (PMC), a network of mercenaries, or a de facto private army of Russian President Vladimir Putin. The group operates beyond the law in Russia, where private military contractors are officially forbidden\n Question: Who are the Wagner group", "output": "They are a private military organization that is endorsed by Russian President Vladimir Putin and is being used in the ongoing war against Ukraine."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: McCarthy uses punctuation sparsely, even replacing most commas with \"and\" to create polysyndetons; it has been called \"the most important word in McCarthy's lexicon\". He told Oprah Winfrey that he prefers \"simple declarative sentences\" and that he uses capital letters, periods, an occasional comma, or a colon for setting off a list, but never semicolons, which he has labelled as \"idiocy\". He does not use quotation marks for dialogue and believes there is no reason to \"blot the page up with weird little marks\". Erik Hage notes that McCarthy's dialogue often lacks attribution, but that \"Somehow ... the reader remains oriented as to who is speaking.\" His attitude to punctuation dates to some editing work he did for a professor of English while enrolled at the University of Tennessee, when he stripped out much of the punctuation in the book being edited, which pleased the professor. McCarthy edited fellow Santa Fe Institute Fellow W. Brian Arthur's influential article \"Increasing Returns and the New World of Business\", published in the Harvard Business Review in 1996, removing commas from the text. He has also done copy-editing work for physicists Lawrence M. Krauss and Lisa Randall.\n Question: Based on this paragraph, please summarize Cormac McCarthy's use of punctuation.", "output": "Cormac McCarthy is known for his preference to avoid punctuation in situations when it is commonly used. Two typical examples of replacing commas with the word \"and\" and avoiding quotation marks when characters in his novels are speaking."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Scrubs focuses on the unique point of view of its main character and narrator, Dr. John Michael \"J.D.\" Dorian (Zach Braff) for the first eight seasons, with season nine being narrated by the new main character Lucy Bennett (Kerry Bish\u00e9). Most episodes feature multiple story lines thematically linked by voice-overs done by Braff, as well as the comical daydreams of J.D. According to Bill Lawrence, \"What we decided was, rather than have it be a monotone narration, if it's going to be Zach's voice, we're going to do everything through J.D.'s eyes. It opened up a visual medium that those of us as comedy writers were not used to.\" Actors were given the chance to improvise their lines on set with encouragement by series creator Bill Lawrence, with Neil Flynn and Zach Braff being the main improvisors.\n Question: What was unique about Scrubs?", "output": "Most episodes featured voice-overs done by Zach Braff (who stars as the main character, J.D.), as well as the comical daydreams of J.D. This opened up a unique visual medium that the comedy writers were not used to. Also, actors were given the chance to improvise their lines on set."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Vladikin was born on September 3, 1891 in the village of Golyamo Belovo, Pazardzhik area. His mother, Maria Morfova, sister of the opera singer Hristina Morfova and the composer Aleksandar Morfov, studied French Philology in Geneva. His father, Nikola Yonkov Vladikin, was a well-known journalist, scholar, writer, publicist, historian and political activist. Over the period from 1890 to 1912 he was an MP for three consecutive terms. He was a nephew of the Bishop of South Bulgaria (from Ohrid to Edirne), known under the church name Evstatiy Pelagoniyski.\n Question: When and where was Lyubomir Nikolov Vladikin born?", "output": "Vladikin was born on September 3, 1891 in the village of Golyamo Belovo, Pazardzhik"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Panch phoron, panch phodan or pancha phutana is a whole spice blend, originating from the eastern part of the Indian subcontinent and used especially in the cuisine of Eastern India and Northeastern India, especially in the cuisine of Bhojpur, Mithila, Odisha, Bengal and Nepal. The name literally means \"five spices\".\n\nAll of the spices in panch phoron are seeds. Typically, panch phoron consists of fenugreek seed, nigella seed, cumin seed, black mustard seed and fennel seed in equal parts. Some cooks prefer to use a smaller proportion of fenugreek seeds, because of their mildly bitter taste.\n Question: What are the ingredients in panch phuran?", "output": "Panch phuran, also known as  panch phoron, comprises of the following spices in equal parts: cumin seeds, fenugreek seeds, black mustard seeds, fennel seeds and nigella seeds."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: It was the arrival of the Price Brothers and Company (of William Evan Price) that the village of Price was founded at the end of the 19th century. It was a suburb of Saint-Octave-de-M\u00e9tis, which constituted a community of workers, who were employed at the saw mill.\n Question: Who founded the city of Price, Quebec?", "output": "The Price Brothers and Company"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The San Francisco\u2013Oakland Bay Bridge, known locally as the Bay Bridge, is a complex of bridges spanning San Francisco Bay in California. As part of Interstate 80 and the direct road between San Francisco and Oakland, it carries about 260,000 vehicles a day on its two decks. It has one of the longest spans in the United States.\n\nThe toll bridge was conceived as early as the California Gold Rush days, with \"Emperor\" Joshua Norton famously advocating for it, but construction did not begin until 1933. Designed by Charles H. Purcell, and built by American Bridge Company, it opened on Thursday, November 12, 1936, six months before the Golden Gate Bridge. It originally carried automobile traffic on its upper deck, with trucks, cars, buses and commuter trains on the lower, but after the Key System abandoned rail service on April 20, 1958, the lower deck was converted to all-road traffic as well. On October 12, 1963, traffic was reconfigured to one way traffic on each deck, westbound on the upper deck, and eastbound on the lower deck, with trucks and buses allowed on the upper deck.\n\nIn 1986, the bridge was unofficially dedicated to former California Governor James Rolph.\n\nThe bridge has two sections of roughly equal length; the older western section, officially known as the Willie L. Brown Jr. Bridge (after former San Francisco Mayor and California State Assembly Speaker Willie L. Brown Jr.), connects downtown San Francisco to Yerba Buena Island, and the newer unnamed eastern section connects the island to Oakland. The western section is a double suspension bridge with two decks, westbound traffic being carried on the upper deck while eastbound is carried on the lower one. The largest span of the original eastern section was a cantilever bridge.\n\nDuring the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, a portion of the eastern section's upper deck collapsed onto the lower deck and the bridge was closed for a month. Reconstruction of the eastern section of the bridge as a causeway connected to a self-anchored suspension bridge began in 2002; the new eastern section opened September 2, 2013, at a reported cost of over $6.5 billion; the original estimate of $250 million was for a seismic retrofit of the existing span. Unlike the western section and the original eastern section of the bridge, the new eastern section is a single deck carrying all eastbound and westbound lanes. Demolition of the old east span was completed on September 8, 2018.\n Question: Based on the reference text, why was the eastern section of the bridge rebuilt?", "output": "The eastern section of the bridge was rebuilt because a portion of its upper deck collapsed onto the lower deck during the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As told in The Hobbit, Bilbo found the Ring while lost in the tunnels near Gollum's lair. In the first edition, Gollum offers to surrender the Ring to Bilbo as a reward for winning the Riddle Game. When Tolkien was writing The Lord of the Rings, he realized that the Ring's grip on Gollum would never permit him to give it up willingly. He therefore revised The Hobbit: in the second edition, after losing the Riddle Game to Bilbo, Gollum went to get his \"Precious\" to help him kill and eat Bilbo, but found the Ring missing. Deducing from Bilbo's last question\u2014\"What have I got in my pocket?\"\u2014that Bilbo had found the Ring, Gollum chased him through the caves, not realizing that Bilbo had discovered the Ring's power of invisibility and was following him to the cave's mouth. Bilbo escaped Gollum and the goblins by remaining invisible, but he chose not to tell Gandalf and the dwarves that the Ring had made him invisible. Instead he told them a story that followed the first edition: that Gollum had given him the Ring and shown him the way out. Gandalf was immediately suspicious of the Ring, and later forced the real story from Bilbo.\n Question: From this summary of how Bilbo found the Ring in The Hobbit, how did Bilbo beat Gollum at the Riddle game?", "output": "Gollum was unable to answer Bilbo's last question, \"What have I got in my pocket?\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The term dead man zone was coined by members of the CSIRO research team in Australia who were investigating the spread of bushfires (Project Vesta). The dead man zone is approximately 8 kilometres (5.0 mi) around the fire that is likely to burn. This dead man zone can be a safety net for firefighters if the fire is moving at a high speed. The dead man zone can also be prepared in a way that slows down the fire. Firefighters can get outside the dead man zone safely without seeing what the fire is going to do and develop a plan of attack or defense upon the fire's next move. If the dead man zone is not used, wind change can sneak up on the firefighters and resulting in potentially unsafe distances where they are not able to defend themselves. This can be a life or death situation if not approached properly, and there have been examples of firefighters that became trapped and ultimately killed in Australia. Project Vesta, headed by scientist Phil Cheney, found that when the wind changes direction, the line of fire will move out at its maximum rate of spread almost immediately, and that the spread speed was nearly three times what was previously thought. Project Vesta's research into bushfire behavior makes up the majority of what is known about bushfires today.\n Question: Given this reference paragraph, who coined the term dead man zone?", "output": "The team was created by the Australian CSIRO research team"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Washington's death came more swiftly than expected. On his deathbed, out of fear of being entombed alive, he instructed his private secretary Tobias Lear to wait three days before his burial. According to Lear, Washington died between 10 p.m. and 11 p.m. on December 14, 1799, with Martha seated at the foot of his bed. His last words were \"'Tis well\", from his conversation with Lear about his burial. He was 67.\n Question: In what year did George Washington die and how old was he?", "output": "George Washington died in the year 1799 at the age of 67."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Telugu cinema, also known as Tollywood, is the segment of Indian cinema dedicated to the production of motion pictures in the Telugu language, widely spoken in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Telugu cinema is based in Film Nagar, Hyderabad. As of 2021, Telugu cinema is the largest film industry in India in terms of box-office. Telugu films sold 23.3 crore (233 million) tickets in 2022, the highest among various film industries in India.\n Question: What is tollywood?", "output": "Tollywood is a nickname for movies made by Telugu cinema in India."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: An exoplanet or extrasolar planet is a planet outside the Solar System. The first possible evidence of an exoplanet was noted in 1917 but was not recognized as such. The first confirmation of detection occurred in 1992. A different planet, initially detected in 1988, was confirmed in 2003. As of 1 April 2023, there are 5,346 confirmed exoplanets in 3,943 planetary systems, with 855 systems having more than one planet. The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) is expected to discover more exoplanets, and also much more about exoplanets, including composition, environmental conditions and potential for life.\n Question: In what year was the evidence of an exoplanet first confirmed?", "output": "The detection of an exoplanet was first confirmed in 1992"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wadi Al Banat's name means \"valley of the girls\" in Arabic, and was thought to have been named that because it was a popular play area for young girls\n Question: Wadi Al Banat's name means ?", "output": "valley of the girls"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Outlander is a historical drama television series based on the Outlander novel series by Diana Gabaldon. Developed by Ronald D. Moore, the show premiered on August 9, 2014, on Starz. It stars Caitr\u00edona Balfe as Claire Randall, a former Second World War military nurse in Scotland who, in 1945, finds herself transported back in time to 1743. There she encounters, falls in love with and marries a dashing Highland warrior named Jamie Fraser (Sam Heughan), a tacksman of Gabaldon's fictionalized version of Clan Fraser of Lovat. Here, Claire becomes embroiled in the Jacobite rising.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Outlander, who stars in Outlander?", "output": "Outlander stars Caitriona Balfe (as Claire Randall).  Her co-start is Sam Heughan (as Jamie Fraser).  It is a Starz TV Series portraying star crossed lovers who meet across time. Claire travels from 1945, back in time to 1743 and encounters: adventure, mystery, and political intrigue of the Jacobite uprising; all the time growing closer and closer to her true love Jamie Fraser. The 2014 (to present) show is based on the Outlander book series written by Diana Gabaldon, originally published in the 1990's."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Every cell is enclosed within a cell membrane that separates its cytoplasm from the extracellular space. A cell membrane consists of a lipid bilayer, including cholesterols that sit between phospholipids to maintain their fluidity at various temperatures. Cell membranes are semipermeable, allowing small molecules such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and water to pass through while restricting the movement of larger molecules and charged particles such as ions. Cell membranes also contains membrane proteins, including integral membrane proteins that go across the membrane serving as membrane transporters, and peripheral proteins that loosely attach to the outer side of the cell membrane, acting as enzymes shaping the cell. Cell membranes are involved in various cellular processes such as cell adhesion, storing electrical energy, and cell signalling and serve as the attachment surface for several extracellular structures such as a cell wall, glycocalyx, and cytoskeleton.\n Question: Given the following paragraph on cell structure, what is an example of membrane proteins?", "output": "One example of membrane proteins are integral membrane proteins which go across the membrane and serve as membrane transporters."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Rajkot is located at 22.3\u00b0N 70.78\u00b0E. It has an average elevation of 128 metres (420 ft). The city is located on the bank of Aji River and Nyari River which remains dry except the monsoon months of July to September. The city is spread in the area of 170.00 km2.\n Question: What are the rivers in Rajkot area?", "output": "There are two rivers - Aaji and Nyari - in the vicinity of Rajkot."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Suwon (Korean: \uc218\uc6d0; Hanja: \u6c34\u539f; lit. Waterfield, Korean pronunciation: [s\u02b0u.w\u028cn]) is the capital and largest city of Gyeonggi-do, South Korea's most populous province which surrounds Seoul, the national capital. Suwon lies about 30 km (19 mi) south of Seoul. It is traditionally known as \"The City of Filial Piety\". With a population close to 1.3 million, it is larger than Ulsan, although it is not governed as a metropolitan city.\n Question: What is the population in Suwon?", "output": "The population in Suwon is close to 1.3 million."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sauvignon blanc is a green-skinned grape variety that originates from the city of Bordeaux in France. The grape most likely gets its name from the French words sauvage (\"wild\") and blanc (\"white\") due to its early origins as an indigenous grape in South West France. It is possibly a descendant of Savagnin. Sauvignon blanc is planted in many of the world's wine regions, producing a crisp, dry, and refreshing white varietal wine. The grape is also a component of the famous dessert wines from Sauternes and Barsac. Sauvignon blanc is widely cultivated in France, Chile, Romania, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Bulgaria, the states of Oregon, Washington, and California in the US. Some New World Sauvignon blancs, particularly from California, may also be called \"Fum\u00e9 Blanc\", a marketing term coined by Robert Mondavi in reference to Pouilly-Fum\u00e9.\n\nDepending on the climate, the flavor can range from aggressively grassy to sweetly tropical. In cooler climates, the grape has a tendency to produce wines with noticeable acidity and \"green flavors\" of grass, green bell peppers and nettles with some tropical fruit (such as passion fruit) and floral (such as elderflower) notes. In warmer climates, it can develop more tropical fruit notes but risks losing much aroma from over-ripeness, leaving only slight grapefruit and tree fruit (such as peach) notes.\n Question: What is Sauvignon blanc?", "output": "Sauvignon blanc is a green-skinned grape variety that originates from the city of Bordeaux in France.  Sauvignon blanc is planted in many of the world's wine regions, producing a crisp, dry, and refreshing white varietal wine."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The ANT catalog (or TAO catalog) is a classified product catalog by the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) of which the version written in 2008\u20132009 was published by German news magazine Der Spiegel in December 2013. Forty-nine catalog pages with pictures, diagrams and descriptions of espionage devices and spying software were published. The items are available to the Tailored Access Operations unit and are mostly targeted at products from US companies such as Apple, Cisco and Dell. The source is believed to be someone different than Edward Snowden, who is largely responsible for the global surveillance disclosures since 2013. Companies whose products could be compromised have denied any collaboration with the NSA in developing these capabilities. In 2014, a project was started to implement the capabilities from the ANT catalog as open-source hardware and software.\n\nBackground\nThe Tailored Access Operations unit has existed since the late 90s. Its mission is to collect intelligence on foreign targets of the United States by hacking into computers and telecommunication networks.\n\nIn 2012, Edward Snowden organized a CryptoParty together with Runa Sandvik, a former colleague of Jacob Appelbaum at The Tor Project. In June 2013, Snowden took internal NSA documents which he shared with Glenn Greenwald and Laura Poitras, resulting in the global surveillance disclosures. It has been speculated for years before that capabilities like those in the ANT catalog existed.\n\nPublication\nJacob Appelbaum co-authored the English publication in Der Spiegel with Christian St\u00f6cker  and Judith Horchert, which was publicized on 29 December 2013. The related English publication on the same day about the TAO by Der Spiegel was also authored by the same people, and including Laura Poitras, Marcel Rosenbach, J\u00f6rg Schindler and Holger Stark. On December 30, Appelbaum gave a lecture about \"the militarization of the Internet\" at the 30th Chaos Communication Congress in Hamburg, Germany. At the end of his talk, he encouraged NSA employees to leak more documents.\n\nApple denied the allegations that it collaborated on the development of DROPOUTJEEP in a statement to journalist Arik Hesseldahl from All Things Digital (part of the Wall Street Journal's Digital Network). The Verge questioned how the program developed in later years, since the document was composed in the early period of the iPhone and smartphones in general. Dell denied collaborating with any government in general, including the US government. John Stewart, senior vice president and chief security officer of Cisco stated that they were \"deeply concerned and will continue to pursue all avenues to determine if we need to address any new issues.\" Juniper stated that they were working actively to address any possible exploit paths. Huawei stated they would take appropriate audits to determine if any compromise had taken place and would communicate if that had taken place. NSA declined to comment on the publication by Der Spiegel.\n\nSource\nThe source who leaked the ANT catalog to the press is unknown as of 2023.\n\nAuthor James Bamford, who is specialized in the United States intelligence agencies, noted in a commentary article published by Reuters that Appelbaum has not identified the source who leaked the ANT catalog to him, which led people to mistakenly assume it was Edward Snowden. Bamford got unrestricted access to the documents cache from Edward Snowden and could not find any references to the ANT catalog using automated search tools, thereby concluding that the documents were not leaked by him. Security expert Bruce Schneier has stated on his blog that he also believes the ANT catalog did not come from Snowden, but from a second leaker. Officials at the NSA did not believe that the web crawler used by Snowden touched the ANT catalog and started looking for other people who could have leaked the catalog.\n\nContent\nThe published catalog pages were written between 2008 and 2009. The price of the items ranged from free up to $250,000.\n\nCapabilities in the ANT catalog \nPage\tCode name\tDescription\tUnit price in US$\nNSA CANDYGRAM.jpg\tCANDYGRAM\tTripwire device that emulates a GSM cellphone tower.\t40,000\nNSA COTTONMOUTH-I.jpg\tCOTTONMOUTH-I\tFamily of modified USB and Ethernet connectors that can be used to install Trojan horse software and work as wireless bridges, providing covert remote access to the target machine. COTTONMOUTH-I is a USB plug that uses TRINITY as digital core and HOWLERMONKEY as RF transceiver.\t20,300\nNSA COTTONMOUTH-II.jpg\tCOTTONMOUTH-II\tCan be deployed in a USB socket (rather than plug), and, but requires further integration in the target machine to turn into a deployed system.\t4,000\nNSA COTTONMOUTH-III.jpg\tCOTTONMOUTH-III\tStacked Ethernet and USB plug\t24,960\nNSA CROSSBEAM.jpg\tCROSSBEAM\tGSM communications module capable of collecting and compressing voice data\t4,000\nNSA CTX4000.jpg\tCTX4000\tContinuous wave radar device that can \"illuminate\" a target system for recovery of \"off net\" information.\tN/A\nNSA CYCLONE Hx9.jpg\tCYCLONE-HX9\tGSM Base Station Router as a Network-In-a-Box\t70,000\nNSA DEITYBOUNCE.jpg\tDEITYBOUNCE\tTechnology that installs a backdoor software implant on Dell PowerEdge servers via the motherboard BIOS and RAID controller(s).\t0\nNSA DROPOUTJEEP.jpg\tDROPOUTJEEP\t\"A software implant for the Apple iPhone that utilizes modular mission applications to provide specific SIGINT functionality. This functionality includes the ability to remotely push/pull files from the device. SMS retrieval, contact list retrieval, voicemail, geolocation, hot mic, camera capture, cell tower location, etc. Command, control and data exfiltration can occur over SMS messaging or a GPRS data connection. All communications with the implant will be covert and encrypted.\"\t0\nNSA EBSR.jpg\tEBSR\tTri-band active GSM base station with internal 802.11/GPS/handset capability\t40,000\nNSA ENTOURAGE.jpg\tENTOURAGE\tDirection finding application for GSM, UMTS, CDMA2000 and FRS signals\t70,000\nNSA FEEDTROUGH.jpg\tFEEDTROUGH\tSoftware that can penetrate Juniper Networks firewalls allowing other NSA-deployed software to be installed on mainframe computers.\tN/A\nNSA FIREWALK.jpg\tFIREWALK\tDevice that looks identical to a standard RJ45 socket that allows data to be injected, or monitored and transmitted via radio technology. using the HOWLERMONKEY RF transceiver. It can for instance create a VPN to the target computer.\t10,740\nNSA GENESIS.jpg\tGENESIS\tGSM handset with added software-defined radio features to record the radio frequency spectrum\t15,000\nNSA GODSURGE.jpg\tGODSURGE\tSoftware implant for a JTAG bus device named FLUXBABBITT which is added to Dell PowerEdge servers during interdiction. GODSURGE installs an implant upon system boot-up using the FLUXBABBITT JTAG interface to the Xeon series CPU.\t500\nNSA GINSU.jpg\tGINSU\tTechnology that uses a PCI bus device in a computer, and can reinstall itself upon system boot-up.\t0\nNSA GOPHERSET.jpg\tGOPHERSET\tGSM software that uses a phone's SIM card's API (SIM Toolkit or STK) to control the phone through remotely sent commands.\t0\nNSA GOURMETTROUGH.jpg\tGOURMETTROUGH\tUser-configurable persistence implant for certain Juniper Networks firewalls.\t0\nNSA HALLUXWATER.jpg\tHALLUXWATER\tBack door exploit for Huawei Eudemon firewalls.\tN/A\nNSA HEADWATER.jpg\tHEADWATER\tPersistent backdoor technology that can install spyware using a quantum insert capable of infecting spyware at a packet level on Huawei routers.\tN/A\nNSA HOWLERMONKEY.jpg\tHOWLERMONKEY\tA RF transceiver that makes it possible (in conjunction with digital processors and various implanting methods) to extract data from systems or allow them to be controlled remotely.\t750\nNSA IRATEMONK.jpg\tIRATEMONK\tTechnology that can infiltrate the firmware of hard drives manufactured by Maxtor, Samsung, Seagate, and Western Digital.\t0\nNSA IRONCHEF.jpg\tIRONCHEF\tTechnology that can \"infect\" networks by installing itself in a computer I/O BIOS. IRONCHEF includes also \"Straitbizarre\" and \"Unitedrake\" which have been linked to the spy software REGIN.\t0\nNSA JUNIORMINT.jpg\tJUNIORMINT\tImplant based on an ARM9 core and an FPGA.\tN/A\nNSA JETPLOW.jpg\tJETPLOW\tFirmware that can be implanted to create a permanent backdoor in a Cisco PIX series and ASA firewalls.\t0\nNSA LOUDAUTO.jpg\tLOUDAUTO\tAudio-based RF retro-reflector listening device.\t30\nNSA MAESTRO-II.jpg\tMAESTRO-II\tMulti-chip module approximately the size of a dime that serves as the hardware core of several other products. The module contains a 66 MHz ARM7 processor, 4 MB of flash, 8 MB of RAM, and a FPGA with 500,000 gates. It replaces the previous generation modules which were based on the HC12 microcontroller.\t3,000\nNSA MONKEYCALENDAR.jpg\tMONKEYCALENDAR\tSoftware that transmits a mobile phone's location by hidden text message.\t0\nNSA NEBULA.jpg\tNEBULA\tMulti-protocol network-in-a-box system.\t250,000\nNSA NIGHTSTAND.jpg\tNIGHTSTAND\tPortable system that installs Microsoft Windows exploits from a distance of up to eight miles over a wireless connection.\tN/A\nNSA NIGHTWATCH.jpg\tNIGHTWATCH\tPortable computer used to reconstruct and display video data from VAGRANT signals; used in conjunction with a radar source like the CTX4000 to illuminate the target in order to receive data from it.\tN/A\nNSA PICASSO.jpg\tPICASSO\tSoftware that can collect mobile phone location data, call metadata, access the phone's microphone to eavesdrop on nearby conversations.\t2,000\nNSA PHOTOANGLO.jpg\tPHOTOANGLO\tA joint NSA/GCHQ project to develop a radar system to replace CTX4000.\t40,000\nNSA RAGEMASTER.jpg\tRAGEMASTER\tA concealed device that taps the video signal from a target's computer's VGA signal output so the NSA can see what is on a targeted desktop monitor. It is powered by a remote radar and responds by modulating the VGA red signal (which is also sent out most DVI ports) into the RF signal it re-radiates; this method of transmission is codenamed VAGRANT. RAGEMASTER is usually installed/concealed in the ferrite choke of the target cable. The original documents are dated 2008-07-24. Several receiver/demodulating devices are available, e.g. NIGHTWATCH.\t30\nNSA SCHOOLMONTANA.jpg\tSCHOOLMONTANA\tSoftware that makes DNT implants persistent on JUNOS-based (FreeBSD-variant) J-series routers/firewalls.\tN/A\nNSA SIERRAMONTANA.jpg\tSIERRAMONTANA\tSoftware that makes DNT implants persistent on JUNOS-based M-series routers/firewalls.\tN/A\nNSA STUCCOMONTANA.jpg\tSTUCCOMONTANA\tSoftware that makes DNT implants persistent on JUNOS-based T-series routers/firewalls.\tN/A\nNSA SOMBERKNAVE.jpg\tSOMBERKNAVE\tSoftware that can be implanted on a Windows XP system allowing it to be remotely controlled from NSA headquarters.\t50,000\nNSA SOUFFLETROUGH.jpg\tSOUFFLETROUGH\tBIOS injection software that can compromise Juniper Networks SSG300 and SSG500 series firewalls.\t0\nNSA SPARROW II.jpg\tSPARROW II\tA small computer intended to be used for WLAN collection, including from UAVs. Hardware: IBM Power PC 405GPR processor, 64 MB SDRAM, 16 MB of built-inflash, 4 mini PCI slots, CompactFlash slot, and 802.11 B/G hardware. Running Linux 2.4 and the BLINDDATE software suite. Unit price (2008): $6K.\t6,000\nNSA SURLYSPAWN.jpg\tSURLYSPAWN\tKeystroke monitor technology that can be used on remote computers that are not internet connected.\t30\nNSA SWAP.jpg\tSWAP\tTechnology that can reflash the BIOS of multiprocessor systems that run FreeBSD, Linux, Solaris, or Windows.\t0\nNSA TAWDRYYARD.jpg\tTAWDRYYARD\tRadio frequency retroreflector to provide location information.\t30\nNSA TOTECHASER.jpg\tTOTECHASER\tWindows CE implant for extracting call logs, contact lists and other information.\tN/A\nNSA TOTEGHOSTLY.jpg\tTOTEGHOSTLY\tSoftware that can be implanted on a Windows mobile phone allowing full remote control.\t0\nNSA TRINITY.jpg\tTRINITY\tMulti-chip module using a 180 MHz ARM9 processor, 4 MB of flash, 96 MB of SDRAM, and a FPGA with 1 million gates. Smaller than a penny.\t6,250\nNSA TYPHON HX.jpg\tTYPHON HX\tNetwork-in-a-box for a GSM network with signaling and call control.\tN/A\nNSA WATERWITCH.jpg\tWATERWITCH\tA portable \"finishing tool\" that allows the operator to find the precise location of a nearby mobile phone.\tN/A\nNSA WISTFULTOLL.jpg\tWISTFULTOLL\tPlugin for collecting information from targets using Windows Management Instrumentation\t0\nFollow-up developments\nSecurity expert Matt Suiche noted that the software exploits leaked by the Shadow Brokers could be seen as genuine because it matched with names from the ANT catalog. John Bumgarner has stated to IEEE Spectrum that US government suspicion of Huawei is based on its own ability to add backdoors as shown in the ANT catalog.\n\nNSA Playset\nThe NSA Playset is an open-source project inspired by the NSA ANT catalog to create more accessible and easy to use tools for security researchers. Most of the surveillance tools can be recreated with off-the-shelf or open-source hardware and software. Thus far, the NSA Playset consists of fourteen items, for which the code and instructions can be found online on the project's homepage. After the initial leak, Michael Ossman, the founder of Great Scott Gadgets, gave a shout out to other security researchers to start working on the tools mentioned in the catalog and to recreate them. The name NSA Playset came originally from Dean Pierce, who is also a contributor (TWILIGHTVEGETABLE(GSM)) to the NSA Playset. Anyone is invited to join and contribute their own device. The requisites for an addition to the NSA Playset is a similar or already existing NSA ANT project, ease of use and a silly name (based on the original tool's name if possible). The silly name requisite is a rule that Michael Ossman himself came up with and an example is given on the project's website: \"For example, if your project is similar to FOXACID, maybe you could call it COYOTEMETH.\" The ease of use part stems also from the NSA Playset's motto: \"If a 10 year old can't do it, it doesn't count!\"\n\nName\tDescription\nTWILIGHTVEGETABLE\ta boot image for GSM communication monitoring.\nLEVITICUS\ta hand held GSM frequency analyzer disguised as a Motorola phone; named after GENESIS.\nDRIZZLECHAIR\ta hard drive with all the needed tools to crack A5/1 including the rainbow tables.\nPORCUPINEMASQUERADE\ta passive Wi-Fi reconnaissance drone.\nKEYSWEEPER\ta keylogger in form of a USB wall charger, that wirelessly and passively sniffs, decrypts, logs and reports back (over GSM).\nSLOTSCREAMER\ta PCI hardware implant, which can access memory and IO.\nADAPTERNOODLE\ta USB exploitation device.\nCHUKWAGON\tuses a pin on a computer's VGA port to attack via the I\u00b2C bus accessing the computer's operating system.\nTURNIPSCHOOL\ta hardware implant concealed in a USB cable which provides short range radio frequency communication capability to software running on the host computer.\nBLINKERCOUGH\ta hardware implant that is embedded in a VGA cable which allows data exfiltration.\nSAVIORBURST\ta hardware implant exploiting the JTAG interface for software application persistence; named after GODSURGE. FLUXBABBIT is replaced by SOLDERPEEK.\nCACTUSTUTU\tPortable system that enables wireless installation of Microsoft Windows exploits; covers NIGHTSTAND.\nTINYALAMO\tsoftware that targets BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) and allows keystroke surveillance (keylogger) and injection.\nCONGAFLOCK\tRadio frequency retroreflector intended for experimentation. Intended use would be the implantation into a cable and data exfiltration based on radio reflectivity of the device.(FLAMENCOFLOCK (PS/2), TANGOFLOCK (USB), SALSAFLOCK (VGA) are retroreflectors with specific interfaces to test data exfiltration.)\nSee also\nCyberwarfare in the United States\nEquation Group\nMiniPanzer and MegaPanzer\nStuxnet\nWARRIOR PRIDE\nExplanatory notes\n Whether ANT stands for Advanced Network Technology or Access Network Technology is not known.\n The article from Der Spiegel notes that it is a \"50-page document\" and that \"nearly 50 pages\" are published. The gallery contains 49 pages. Der Spiegel also noted that the document is likely far from complete.\n If the price is listed in bulk, a calculation is made to get the unit price\n For two months\n Including installation costs\n When ordering 25 units, the price per item is US$1000\n Up to 4,000\n Varies from platform to platform\n Data Network Technologies, a division of the Tailored Access Operations\n 100 units for 625,000\n Question: Given this article about the NSA's ANT Catalog, which hacking tools can be used to monitor a target's key strokes?", "output": "SURLYSPAWN, KEYSWEEPER, and TINYALAMO are monitoring technologies that can be used to monitor target's key strokes.\nSURLYSPAWN is a keystroke monitor technology that can be used on remote computers that are not internet connected.\nKEYSWEEPER is a keylogger in form of a USB wall charger, that wirelessly and passively sniffs, decrypts, logs and reports back (over GSM).\nTINYALAMO is software that targets BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) and allows keystroke surveillance (keylogger) and injection."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Trump ordered a travel ban on citizens from several Muslim-majority countries, diverted military funding towards building a wall on the U.S.\u2013Mexico border, and implemented a policy of family separations for apprehended migrants. He rolled back more than 100 environmental policies and regulations in an aggressive attempt to weaken environmental protections. Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which cut taxes for individuals and businesses and rescinded the individual health insurance mandate penalty of the Affordable Care Act. He appointed 54 federal appellate judges and three U.S. Supreme Court justices. Trump initiated a trade war with China and withdrew the U.S. from the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, the Paris Agreement on climate change, and the Iran nuclear deal. Trump met with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un three times, but made no progress on denuclearization. He reacted slowly to the COVID-19 pandemic, ignored or contradicted many recommendations from health officials in his messaging, and promoted misinformation about unproven treatments and the need for testing.\n Question: How many judges did President Trump apoint?", "output": "He appointed 57 judges, 54 federal appellate judges and three U.S. Supreme Court justices."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Himmerland is a peninsula in northeastern Jutland, Denmark. It is delimited to the north and the west by the Limfjord, to the east by the Kattegat, and to the south by the Mariager Fjord. The largest city is Aalborg; smaller towns include Hobro, Aars, L\u00f8gst\u00f8r, St\u00f8vring and Nibe. In northeastern Himmerland is the Lille Vildmose, Denmark's largest raised bog, which sustains a rich bird life of international importance.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Himmerland, which is the largest city in Himmerland?", "output": "Aalborg is the largest city in Himmerland."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: ext3, or third extended filesystem, is a journaled file system that is commonly used by the Linux kernel. It used to be the default file system for many popular Linux distributions. Stephen Tweedie first revealed that he was working on extending ext2 in Journaling the Linux ext2fs Filesystem in a 1998 paper, and later in a February 1999 kernel mailing list posting. The filesystem was merged with the mainline Linux kernel in November 2001 from 2.4.15 onward. Its main advantage over ext2 is journaling, which improves reliability and eliminates the need to check the file system after an unclean shutdown. Its successor is ext4\n Question: Given this paragraph about ext3, tell me why its better than ext2 and its successor.", "output": "ext3 is better than ext2 because of its journaling capabilities, which improve reliability and eliminates the need to check the file system after an unclean shutdown. The successor of ext3 is ext4."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As established by law and government policy, the two official forms of written Norwegian are Bokm\u00e5l (literally 'book tongue') and Nynorsk ('new Norwegian'). The official Norwegian Language Council (Spr\u00e5kr\u00e5det) is responsible for regulating the two forms, and recommends the terms Norwegian Bokm\u00e5l and Norwegian Nynorsk in English.[citation needed] Two other written forms without official status also exist. One, called Riksm\u00e5l ('national language'), is today to a large extent the same language as Bokm\u00e5l though somewhat closer to the Danish language. It is regulated by the unofficial Norwegian Academy, which translates the name as 'Standard Norwegian'. The other is H\u00f8gnorsk ('High Norwegian'), a more purist form of Nynorsk, which maintains the language in an original form as given by Ivar Aasen and rejects most of the reforms from the 20th century; this form has limited use.\n Question: What are the official forms of written Norwegian?", "output": "The two official forms of written Norwegian are Bokm\u00e5l and Nynorsk."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Voorhees Chapel is one of two chapels on the campus of Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey in New Brunswick, New Jersey. Built in 1925 with a donation from Elizabeth Rodman Voorhees, wife of Rutgers trustee Ralph Voorhees, the chapel once served the community of Douglass College. Douglass, founded the New Jersey College for Women (founded in 1918), was the women's residential college at Rutgers.\n Question: Which chapel on Rutger's campus was built 7 years after the New Jersey College for Women?", "output": "The Voorhees Chapel was built in 1925, seven years after the New Jersey College for Women was founded by Elizabeth Rodman Voorhees."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Super Bowl LV was an American football game played to determine the champion of the National Football League (NFL) for the 2020 season. The National Football Conference (NFC) champion Tampa Bay Buccaneers defeated the defending American Football Conference (AFC) and Super Bowl champion Kansas City Chiefs, 31\u20139. The game was played on February 7, 2021, at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida, the home stadium of the Buccaneers, marking the first time a team played a Super Bowl in its home stadium. Due to COVID-19 protocols limiting the stadium's seating capacity to 25,000 fans, it was the least-attended Super Bowl.\n\nThe Buccaneers' victory was their second and made them one of two teams, along with the Baltimore Ravens, to be undefeated in multiple Super Bowls. They finished the regular season with an 11\u20135 record and a wild card berth to advance to their second Super Bowl appearance through the guidance of several new acquisitions, most notably 21-year veteran quarterback Tom Brady in his first season away from the New England Patriots. The Chiefs, aided by their top-ranked offense, finished the regular season with a league-best 14\u20132 record to advance to their fourth Super Bowl appearance and were the defending Super Bowl LIV champions, seeking to become the first repeat champions since the Patriots in 2004.\n\nFor the first time under quarterback Patrick Mahomes, the Chiefs failed to score a touchdown and lost by double-digits, making them the third Super Bowl team to not score a touchdown. They also committed 11 penalties for 120 yards, including a record eight penalties for 95 yards in the first half, most of which were called against the defense. The Buccaneers capitalized on these struggles to take a commanding 21\u20136 lead at halftime and dominated the remainder of the game. Brady, who also extended his player records for Super Bowl appearances to 10 and wins to seven, was named Super Bowl MVP for a record fifth time and was the first to receive the award with multiple franchises. He became the oldest player to receive the honor and win a Super Bowl as the starting quarterback at age 43, breaking additional personal records, while Bruce Arians was the oldest head coach to win the Super Bowl at 68.\n\nThe game was televised nationally by CBS. Country music singer Eric Church and R&B singer Jazmine Sullivan performed the national anthem, while the halftime show was headlined by Canadian singer The Weeknd. On television, Super Bowl LV was seen by 91.63 million viewers, the lowest ratings for the game since 2006. Combined with viewership on other platforms, viewership was down by 5% overall in comparison to Super Bowl LIV, but with a 69% increase in average streaming viewership.\n Question: Given the reference text about Super Bowl LV, please answer the following questions:\n1. Who performed at the halftime show?\n2. Which team won and what was the final score?\n3. Who was the MVP?\n4. Where was the game played?", "output": "Given the provided reference text, the answers to the questions are as follows:\n1. Who performed at the halftime show?\nThe halftime show was headlined by Canadian singer The Weeknd.\n2. Which team won and what was the final score?\nThe Tampa Bay Buccaneers won the game by a score of 31\u20139.\n3. Who was the MVP?\nTom Brady was the MVP.\n4. Where was the game played?\nThe game was played at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Gandhi's first major achievement came in 1917 with the Champaran agitation in Bihar. The Champaran agitation pitted the local peasantry against largely Anglo-Indian plantation owners who were backed by the local administration. The peasants were forced to grow indigo (Indigofera sp.), a cash crop for Indigo dye whose demand had been declining over two decades, and were forced to sell their crops to the planters at a fixed price. Unhappy with this, the peasantry appealed to Gandhi at his ashram in Ahmedabad. Pursuing a strategy of nonviolent protest, Gandhi took the administration by surprise and won concessions from the authorities.\n Question: When and where was the first major agitation led by Gandhi, tell me who this agitation was against,  which crop led to this agitation and why this agitation happened.", "output": "First major agitation was in 1917 in Champaran Bihar state. The agitation was against Anglo-Indian plantation owners. Indigo was the crop that led to this agitation and the reason was the lower fixed price for the Indigo crop."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Roger Federer (German: [\u02c8r\u0254d\u0292\u0259r \u02c8fe\u02d0d\u0259r\u0259r]; born 8 August 1981) is a Swiss former professional tennis player. He was ranked world No. 1 by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) for 310 weeks, including a record 237 consecutive weeks, and finished as the year-end No. 1 five times. He won 103 singles titles on the ATP Tour, the second most of all time, including 20 major men's singles titles, a record eight men's singles Wimbledon titles, an Open Era joint-record five men's singles US Open titles, and a joint-record six year-end championships. In his home country, he is regarded as \"the greatest and most successful\" Swiss sportsperson in history.\n\nA Wimbledon junior champion in 1998 and former ball boy, Federer won his first major singles title at Wimbledon in 2003 at age 21. Between 2003 and 2009, Federer played in 21 out of 28 major singles finals. He won three of the four majors and the ATP Finals in 2004, 2006, and 2007 as well as five consecutive titles at both Wimbledon and the US Open. He completed the career Grand Slam at the 2009 French Open after three consecutive runner-up finishes to Nadal, his main rival until 2010. At age 27, he surpassed Pete Sampras' record of 14 major men's singles titles at Wimbledon in 2009.\n\nFederer and Stan Wawrinka led the Switzerland Davis Cup team to their first title in 2014, following their Olympic doubles gold victory at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Federer also won a silver medal in singles at the 2012 London Olympics, finishing runner-up to Andy Murray. After a half-year hiatus in late 2016 to recover from knee surgery, Federer returned to tennis, winning three more majors over the next two years, including the 2017 Australian Open over Rafael Nadal and an eighth singles title at the 2017 Wimbledon Championships. At the 2018 Australian Open, Federer became the first man to win 20 major singles titles and shortly the oldest ATP world No. 1 at age 36. In September 2022, he retired from professional tennis following the Laver Cup.\n\nA versatile all-court player, Federer's perceived effortlessness has made him highly popular among tennis fans. Originally lacking self-control as a junior, he transformed his on-court demeanor to become well-liked for his graciousness, winning the Stefan Edberg Sportsmanship Award 13 times. He has won the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year award a record five times. Outside of competing, he played an instrumental role in the creation of the Laver Cup team competition. He is also an active philanthropist. He established the Roger Federer Foundation, which targets impoverished children in southern Africa, and has raised funds in part through the Match for Africa exhibition series. He is routinely one of the top ten highest-paid athletes in any sport and ranked first among all athletes with $100 million in endorsement income in 2020.\n Question: Tell me about Roger Federer", "output": "Roger Federer, born 8 August 1981, is a Swiss former professional tennis player. He was ranked world No. 1 by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) for 310 weeks, including a record 237 consecutive weeks, and finished as the year-end No. 1 five times. He won 103 singles titles on the ATP Tour, the second most of all time, including 20 major men's singles titles, a record eight men's singles Wimbledon titles, an Open Era joint-record five men's singles US Open titles, and a joint-record six year-end championships. In his home country, he is regarded as \"the greatest and most successful\" Swiss sportsperson in history.\n\nA Wimbledon junior champion in 1998 and former ball boy, Federer won his first major singles title at Wimbledon in 2003 at age 21. Between 2003 and 2009, Federer played in 21 out of 28 major singles finals. He won three of the four majors and the ATP Finals in 2004, 2006, and 2007 as well as five consecutive titles at both Wimbledon and the US Open. He completed the career Grand Slam at the 2009 French Open after three consecutive runner-up finishes to Nadal, his main rival until 2010. At age 27, he surpassed Pete Sampras' record of 14 major men's singles titles at Wimbledon in 2009.\n\nFederer and Stan Wawrinka led the Switzerland Davis Cup team to their first title in 2014, following their Olympic doubles gold victory at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Federer also won a silver medal in singles at the 2012 London Olympics, finishing runner-up to Andy Murray. After a half-year hiatus in late 2016 to recover from knee surgery, Federer returned to tennis, winning three more majors over the next two years, including the 2017 Australian Open over Rafael Nadal and an eighth singles title at the 2017 Wimbledon Championships. At the 2018 Australian Open, Federer became the first man to win 20 major singles titles and shortly the oldest ATP world No. 1 at age 36. In September 2022, he retired from professional tennis following the Laver Cup.\n\nA versatile all-court player, Federer's perceived effortlessness has made him highly popular among tennis fans. Originally lacking self-control as a junior, he transformed his on-court demeanor to become well-liked for his graciousness, winning the Stefan Edberg Sportsmanship Award 13 times. He has won the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year award a record five times. Outside of competing, he played an instrumental role in the creation of the Laver Cup team competition. He is also an active philanthropist. He established the Roger Federer Foundation, which targets impoverished children in southern Africa, and has raised funds in part through the Match for Africa exhibition series. He is routinely one of the top ten highest-paid athletes in any sport and ranked first among all athletes with $100 million in endorsement income in 2020."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Historical population\nYear\tPop.\t\u00b1%\n1911\t752\t\u2014    \n1962\t437\t\u221241.9%\n1968\t486\t+11.2%\n1975\t398\t\u221218.1%\n1982\t393\t\u22121.3%\n1990\t382\t\u22122.8%\n1999\t395\t+3.4%\n2008\t441\t+11.6%\n Question: This table lists the change over time in population of a small town in France. Between  which two consecutive entries from the table did the rate of population growth change the most? Explain your math.", "output": "The rate of population growth changed the most between the entries for 1962 and 1968. Between 1911 and 1962, there was a -41.9% change in population, and between 1962 and 1968 there was a +11.2% change in population. The rate of change of population growth was |(\u221241.9% - +11.2%)| = 53.1% change, which is larger than the absolute difference between any other two consecutive rows in the table."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Joint Direct Attack Munition (JDAM) is a guidance kit that converts unguided bombs, or \"dumb bombs\", into all-weather precision-guided munitions. JDAM-equipped bombs are guided by an integrated inertial guidance system coupled to a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver, giving them a published range of up to 15 nautical miles (28 km). JDAM-equipped bombs range from 500 to 2,000 pounds (230 to 910 kg). The JDAM's guidance system was jointly developed by the United States Air Force and United States Navy, hence the \"joint\" in JDAM. When installed on a bomb, the JDAM kit is given a GBU (Guided Bomb Unit) identifier, superseding the Mark 80 or BLU (Bomb, Live Unit) nomenclature of the bomb to which it is attached.\n\nThe JDAM is not a stand-alone weapon; rather it is a \"bolt-on\" guidance package that converts unguided gravity bombs into precision-guided munitions (PGMs). The key components of the system consist of a tail section with aerodynamic control surfaces, a (body) strake kit, and a combined inertial guidance system and GPS guidance control unit.\n\nThe JDAM was meant to improve upon laser-guided bomb and imaging infrared technology, which can be hindered by bad ground and weather conditions. Laser seekers are now being fitted to some JDAMs.\n Question: Why is JDAM so cost effective?", "output": "The Joint Direct Attack Munition (JDAM) is a guidance kit that converts unguided bombs to precision-guided munitions. There are several reasons why JDAM is one of the most cost effective weapons ever invented.\n\nBy using GPS navigation, the JDAM guidance kit can be extremely cheap, as low as $25k/kit.  It is likely cheaper than any other precision-guided weapons.\n\nGPS navigation provides good targeting precision, typically within meters. Combined with blast radius of 500-2000 lbs unguided bombs, JDAM can effectively destroy any targets on the ground.\n\nBecause JDAM has navigation capability, pilots no longer need to precisely aim the bombers  against the targets. It allows a bomber to quickly and precisely hit multiple targets along the route.\n\nSome JDAM guidance kits include targeting sensors, such as laser targeting. They can be used against mobile targets, which further increases the use cases for JDAM.\n\nIn summary, by combining dumb bombs with a guidance kit, JDAM becomes a very cost effective weapon system, and is widely adopted by the US and other military forces."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Both the modern free software movement and the Open Source Initiative were born from a common history of Unix, Internet free software, and the hacker culture, but their basic goals and philosophy differ, the free software movement being more focused on the ethics of software, and their open source counterparts being more focused on practical benefits. The Open Source Initiative chose the term \"open source,\" in founding member Michael Tiemann's words, to \"dump the moralizing and confrontational attitude that had been associated with 'free software'\" and instead promote open source ideas on \"pragmatic, business-case grounds.\"\n Question: Which is better the Free Software Movement or the Open Source Initiative?", "output": "The Free Software Movement is the better organization for me since I also hold a high value on ethics and believe in that vision."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: During one iteration of the loop, Phil reports on the Groundhog Day festivities with such eloquence that other news crews stop working to listen to his speech, amazing Rita. Phil continues his day helping the people of Punxsutawney. That night, Rita witnesses Phil's expert piano-playing skills as the adoring townsfolk regale her with stories of his good deeds. Impressed by his apparent overnight transformation, Rita successfully bids for him at a charity bachelor auction. Phil carves an ice sculpture in Rita's image and tells her that no matter what happens, even if he is trapped in the loop forever, he is finally happy because he loves her. They share a kiss and retire to Phil's room. He wakes the next morning to \"I Got You Babe\" but finds Rita is still in bed with him and the radio banter has changed; it is now February 3. Phil tells Rita that he wants to live in Punxsutawney with her.\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Groundhog_Day_(film)\n Question: Given this paragraph describing the conclusion of the movie Groundhog Day, how did Phil manage to break the cycle and wake up on February 3 instead of back once again on February 2?", "output": "This paragraph summarizing the conclusion of Groundhog Day explains what was happening when Phil wakes up on February 3 but does not explain why he is able to escape the loop."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The koala or, inaccurately, koala bear (Phascolarctos cinereus), is an arboreal herbivorous marsupial native to Australia. It is the only extant representative of the family Phascolarctidae and its closest living relatives are the wombats. The koala is found in coastal areas of the mainland's eastern and southern regions, inhabiting Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia. It is easily recognisable by its stout, tailless body and large head with round, fluffy ears and large, spoon-shaped nose. The koala has a body length of 60\u201385 cm (24\u201333 in) and weighs 4\u201315 kg (9\u201333 lb). Fur colour ranges from silver grey to chocolate brown. Koalas from the northern populations are typically smaller and lighter in colour than their counterparts further south. These populations possibly are separate subspecies, but this is disputed.\n\nKoalas typically inhabit open Eucalyptus woodland, as the leaves of these trees make up most of their diet. This eucalypt diet has low nutritional and caloric content and contains toxins that deter most other mammals from feeding on it. Koalas are largely sedentary and sleep up to twenty hours a day. They are asocial animals, and bonding exists only between mothers and dependent offspring. Adult males communicate with loud bellows that intimidate rivals and attract mates. Males mark their presence with secretions from scent glands located on their chests. Being marsupials, koalas give birth to underdeveloped young that crawl into their mothers' pouches, where they stay for the first six to seven months of their lives. These young koalas, known as joeys, are fully weaned around a year old. Koalas have few natural predators and parasites, but are threatened by various pathogens, such as Chlamydiaceae bacteria and koala retrovirus.\n Question: Given this reference text about the Koala, tell me what makes up most of their diet, how long joeys spend in their mothers' pouches and what are some of the pathogens they are threatened by.", "output": "Eucalyptus makes up most of their diet. Joeys spend the first six to seven months of their lives in their mothers' pouches. They are threatened by pathogens like Chlamydiaceae and koala retrovirus."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Porce III Dam is an embankment dam on the Porce River 90 kilometres (56 mi) northeast of Medell\u00edn in Antioquia Department, Colombia. The dam was constructed between 2004 and 2011 for the primary purpose of hydroelectric power generation.\n\nBackground\nBetween 1974 and 1976, hydrological studies were carried out on the Porce River and between 1982 and 1983, studies regarding the river's hydroelectric development were completed. The study recommended the five projects, Porce I, Porce II, Porce III, Porce IV and Ermita\u00f1o. In December 1984, the feasibility report for Porce III was submitted and complementary studies were carried out between 1986 and 1996. In 2002, the design and consultancy contracts were awarded along with the environmental license issued. In 2004, construction on the dam began and the river was diverted by 2007. By 2010, the dam began to impound the reservoir and was complete by 2010. Between 2011, all four generators were commissioned.\n Question: Where is the Porce III Dam", "output": "The Porce III Dam is an embankment dam on the Porce River 90 kilometres (56 mi) northeast of Medell\u00edn in Antioquia Department, Colombia. The dam was constructed between 2004 and 2011 for the primary purpose of hydroelectric power generation."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the 21st century alone, UVA teams have won seventeen NCAA championships. The men's teams have won recent NCAA titles in basketball (2019); lacrosse (2003, 2006, 2011, 2019, and 2021); baseball (2015); soccer (2009 and 2014); and tennis (2013, 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2022). UVA women have won recent NCAA titles in rowing (2010 and 2012) and swimming & diving (2021 and 2022). The Cavaliers rank first in the ACC (a power conference) with 22 men's NCAA Championships, and rank second in the conference with nine women's NCAA Championships.\n Question: According to this reference text about UVA, what years have UVA women won NCAA titles in rowing?", "output": "UVA women won NCAA titles in rowing in 2010 and 2012."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Marquez Phillips Pope (born October 29, 1970 in Nashville, Tennessee) is a former professional American football player who was drafted by the San Diego Chargers in the 2nd round (33rd overall) of the 1992 NFL Draft. A 5'11\" cornerback-safety from Fresno State University, Pope played for 5 teams in 10 NFL seasons from 1992 to 2001. His best year as a pro came during the 1996 season for the San Francisco 49ers, intercepting 6 passes with 1 touchdown. During his pro career, Pope was known to be among the hardest hitters in the NFL.\n Question: Which team drafted Marques Pope?", "output": "The team that drafted Marquez Pope was the San Diego Chargers in the 1992 NFL Draft."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 2019 Masters Tournament was the 83rd edition of the Masters Tournament and the first of golf's four major championships in 2019, held between April 11 and 14 at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia.\n\nTiger Woods won his fifth Green Jacket, and fifteenth major, by one stroke ahead of three runners-up. It left him one shy of Jack Nicklaus's record six Masters wins, and three short of his record eighteen major wins. At age 43, he became the eleventh oldest player to win a major, and the second oldest Masters winner, again only bettered by Nicklaus who won at age 46. It was 11 years after his last major win, the 2008 U.S. Open, and 14 years since his last Masters win beating the previous record of 13 years held by Gary Player. Due to the high profile of Woods, and his storied fall from the top of the game due to personal issues and injuries, the victory generated a large amount of publicity around the world, and is regarded as one of the great sporting comebacks.\n Question: Given the text about the 2019 Masters Tournament, tell me who won the golf tournament, where the tournament was held and what age the winner was?", "output": "Tiger Woods won the golf tournament at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, GA and was 43 years old."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Tomorrow\" is a show tune from the musical Annie, with music by Charles Strouse and lyrics by Martin Charnin, published in 1977. The number was originally written as \"Replay\" (The Way We Live Now) for the 1970 short film Replay, with both music and lyrics by Strouse.\n\nIn 1972 Strouse, and Thomas Meehan began working on a musical based on the Little Orphan Annie comic strips, Annie. Strouse contributed a reworked version of \"Replay\" as \"Tomorrow\". \"Annie\" took until 1976 to reach Broadway and during that time Strouse reworked \"Replay\" again for possible use in what became \"Charlie and Algernon\", a musical version of Daniel Keyes's Flowers for Algernon with book by playwright David Rogers although it was not ultimately used. \"\n Question: Who wrote the music and lyrics for Replay?", "output": "Charles Strouse"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Quicksand, also known as sinking sand, is a colloid consisting of fine granular material (such as sand, silt or clay) and water. It forms in saturated loose sand when the sand is suddenly agitated. When water in the sand cannot escape, it creates a liquefied soil that loses strength and cannot support weight. Quicksand can form in standing water or in upward flowing water (as from an artesian spring). In the case of upward flowing water, forces oppose the force of gravity and suspend the soil particles.\n Question: What is Sinking Sand?", "output": "Sinking Sand is most commonly known as Quicksand."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hamilton is a sung-and-rapped-through musical with music, lyrics, and a book by Lin-Manuel Miranda, based on the 2004 book Alexander Hamilton by Ron Chernow. The musical tells the story of American Founding Father Alexander Hamilton. Composed over a seven-year period from 2008 to 2015, Miranda says Hamilton was originally a hip hop concept album in his head. The show draws heavily from hip hop, as well as R&B, pop, soul, and traditional-style show tunes. It casts non-white actors as the Founding Fathers of the United States and other historical figures. Miranda described Hamilton as about \"America then, as told by America now.\"\n Question: What book was the musical Hamilton based on?", "output": "Hamilton, the musical was based on the 2004 book Alexander Hamilton by Ron Chernow."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Richard Louis Proenneke (/\u02c8pr\u025bn\u0259ki\u02d0/; May 4, 1916 \u2013 April 20, 2003) was an American self-educated naturalist, conservationist, writer, and wildlife photographer who, from the age of about 51, lived alone for nearly thirty years (1968\u20131998) in the mountains of Alaska in a log cabin that he constructed by hand near the shore of Twin Lakes. Proenneke hunted, fished, raised and gathered much of his own food, and also had supplies flown in occasionally. He documented his activities in journals and on film, and also recorded valuable meteorological and natural data. The journals and film were later used by others to write books and produce documentaries about his time in the wilderness.\n Question: When he lived in the mountains of Alaska, was Richard Proenneke in full autonomy?", "output": "No, he was getting some of his food by plane."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The team was founded in 1972 in Atlanta as the Atlanta Flames before relocating to Calgary in 1980. The Flames played their first three seasons in Calgary at the Stampede Corral before moving into the Scotiabank Saddledome (originally the Olympic Saddledome) in 1983. In 1985\u201386, the Flames became the first Calgary team since the 1923\u201324 Tigers to compete for the Stanley Cup. In 1988\u201389, the Flames won their first and only Stanley Cup title. The Flames' unexpected run to the 2004 Stanley Cup Finals gave rise to the Red Mile, and in 2011, the team hosted and won the second Heritage Classic outdoor game.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the history of the Calgary Flames hockey team, what year did the Calgary Flames win their only Stanley Cup", "output": "The Calgary Flames won their only Stanley Cup in 1989"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific tasks.\n\nProperties\nThough the term large language model has no formal definition, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more. LLMs are general purpose models which excel at a wide range of tasks, as opposed to being trained for one specific task (such as sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or mathematical reasoning). The skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable, seems to be a function of the amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design.\n\nThough trained on simple tasks along the lines of predicting the next word in a sentence, neural language models with sufficient training and parameter counts are found to capture much of the syntax and semantics of human language. In addition, large language models demonstrate considerable general knowledge about the world, and are able to \"memorize\" a great quantity of facts during training.\n\nHallucinations\nMain article: Hallucination (artificial intelligence)\nIn artificial intelligence in general, and in large language models in particular, a \"hallucination\" is a confident response that does not seem to be justified by the model's training data.\n\nEmergent abilities\n\nOn a number of natural language benchmarks involving tasks such as question answering, models perform no better than random chance until they reach a certain scale (in this case, measured by training computation), at which point their performance sharply increases. These are examples of emergent abilities.\nUnpredictable abilities that have been observed in large language models but that were not present in simpler models (and that were not explicitly designed into the model) are usually called \"emergent abilities\". Researchers note that such abilities \"cannot be predicted simply by extrapolating the performance of smaller models\". These abilities are discovered rather than programmed-in or designed, in some cases only after the LLM has been publicly deployed. Hundreds of emergent abilities have been described. Examples include multi-step arithmetic, taking college-level exams, identifying the intended meaning of a word, chain-of-thought prompting, decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet, unscrambling a word\u2019s letters, identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs.\n\nArchitecture and training\nLarge language models have most commonly used the transformer architecture, which, since 2018, has become the standard deep learning technique for sequential data (previously, recurrent architectures such as the LSTM were most common). LLMs are trained in an unsupervised manner on unannotated text. A left-to-right transformer is trained to maximize the probability assigned to the next word in the training data, given the previous context. Alternatively, an LLM may use a bidirectional transformer (as in the example of BERT), which assigns a probability distribution over words given access to both preceding and following context. In addition to the task of predicting the next word or \"filling in the blanks\", LLMs may be trained on auxiliary tasks which test their understanding of the data distribution such as Next Sentence Prediction (NSP), in which pairs of sentences are presented and the model must predict whether they appear side-by-side in the training corpus.\n\nThe earliest LLMs were trained on corpora having on the order of billions of words. The first model in OpenAI's GPT series was trained in 2018 on BookCorpus, consisting of 985 million words. In the same year, BERT was trained on a combination of BookCorpus and English Wikipedia, totalling 3.3 billion words. In the years since then, training corpora for LLMs have increased by orders of magnitude, reaching up to hundreds of billions or trillions of tokens.\n\nLLMs are computationally expensive to train. A 2020 study estimated the cost of training a 1.5 billion parameter model (1-2 orders of magnitude smaller than the state of the art at the time) at $1.6 million.\n\nA 2020 analysis found that neural language models' capability (as measured by training loss) increased smoothly in a power law relationship with number of parameters, quantity of training data, and computation used for training. These relationships were tested over a wide range of values (up to seven orders of magnitude) and no attenuation of the relationship was observed at the highest end of the range (including for network sizes up to trillions of parameters).\n\nApplication to downstream tasks\nBetween 2018 and 2020, the standard method for harnessing an LLM for a specific natural language processing (NLP) task was to fine tune the model with additional task-specific training. It has subsequently been found that more powerful LLMs such as GPT-3 can solve tasks without additional training via \"prompting\" techniques, in which the problem to be solved is presented to the model as a text prompt, possibly with some textual examples of similar problems and their solutions.\n\nFine-tuning\nMain article: Fine-tuning (machine learning)\nFine-tuning is the practice of modifying an existing pretrained language model by training it (in a supervised fashion) on a specific task (e.g. sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or part-of-speech tagging). It is a form of transfer learning. It generally involves the introduction of a new set of weights connecting the final layer of the language model to the output of the downstream task. The original weights of the language model may be \"frozen\", such that only the new layer of weights connecting them to the output are learned during training. Alternatively, the original weights may receive small updates (possibly with earlier layers frozen).\n\nPrompting\nSee also: Prompt engineering and Few-shot learning (natural language processing)\nIn the prompting paradigm, popularized by GPT-3, the problem to be solved is formulated via a text prompt, which the model must solve by providing a completion (via inference). In \"few-shot prompting\", the prompt includes a small number of examples of similar (problem, solution) pairs. For example, a sentiment analysis task of labelling the sentiment of a movie review could be prompted as follows:\n\nReview: This movie stinks.\nSentiment: negative\n\nReview: This movie is fantastic!\nSentiment:\n\nIf the model outputs \"positive\", then it has correctly solved the task. In zero-shot prompting, no solve examples are provided. An example of a zero-shot prompt for the same sentiment analysis task would be \"The sentiment associated with the movie review 'This movie is fantastic!' is\".\n\nFew-shot performance of LLMs has been shown to achieve competitive results on NLP tasks, sometimes surpassing prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Examples of such NLP tasks are translation, question answering, cloze tasks, unscrambling words, and using a novel word in a sentence. The creation and optimisation of such prompts is called prompt engineering.\n\nInstruction tuning\nInstruction tuning is a form of fine-tuning designed to facilitate more natural and accurate zero-shot prompting interactions. Given a text input, a pretrained language model will generate a completion which matches the distribution of text on which it was trained. A naive language model given the prompt \"Write an essay about the main themes of Hamlet.\" might provide a completion such as \"A late penalty of 10% per day will be applied to submissions received after March 17.\" In instruction tuning, the language model is trained on many examples of tasks formulated as natural language instructions, along with appropriate responses. Various techniques for instruction tuning have been applied in practice. OpenAI's InstructGPT protocol involves supervised fine-tuning on a dataset of human-generated (prompt, response) pairs, followed by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), in which a reward function was learned based on a dataset of human preferences. Another technique, \"self-instruct\", fine-tunes the language model on a training set of examples which are themselves generated by an LLM (bootstrapped from a small initial set of human-generated examples).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Large language models, how many words did the BookCorpus have when it was used to train the first model in OpenAI's GPT series trained in 2018?", "output": "985 million words."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kevum or Kavum is a deep-fried Sri Lankan sweet made from rice flour and kithul (sugar-palm) treacle, with a number of variants adding additional ingredients. It is also known as oil cake. Kevum is traditionally given and consumed during celebrations of Sinhala and Tamil New Year.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Kevum, explain when it is typically consumed?", "output": "It's consumed usually for Sinahala and Tamil celebrations. Particularly, the New Year."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In September 2002, the Tunisian Football Federation announced that it was finalizing a contract with former France manager Roger Lemerre. Tunisia hosted the 2004 African Cup of Nations, winning the group. They defeated Senegal in the quarter-finals, and Nigeria in the semi-finals. Tunisia built a 1\u20130 lead after four minutes with Mehdi Nafti's concentration pushed by Francileudo Santos, before Morocco levelled. Tunisia restored their lead, giving them their first African Cup of Nations title. They also won the CAF's African National Team of the Year award. Lemerre became the first manager to win two different continental tournaments, having previously won Euro 2000 with France.\n\nAs a result, Tunisia qualified for the 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup in Germany, playing the hosts, Argentina and Australia. The only points they would win was a victory over Australia. Before their 2006 World Cup appearance, Lemerre took the Tunisians to a training camp in Switzerland, where they played international friendlies against Swiss clubs. Tunisia would only record one draw in Germany, against Saudi Arabia, losing against Spain and Ukraine\n Question: What are the two different continental tournaments that Roger Lemerre won ?", "output": "Roger Lemerre won the Euro 2000 with France and the African Cup of Nations 2004 with Tunisia"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Octavia Estelle Butler (June 22, 1947 \u2013 February 24, 2006) was an American science fiction author and a multiple recipient of the Hugo and Nebula awards. In 1995, Butler became the first science-fiction writer to receive a MacArthur Fellowship. Born in Pasadena, California, Butler was raised by her widowed mother. Extremely shy as a child, Butler found an outlet at the library reading fantasy, and in writing. She began writing science fiction as a teenager. She attended community college during the Black Power movement. While participating in a local writer's workshop, she was encouraged to attend the Clarion Workshop, then held in Pennsylvania, which focused on science fiction.\n Question: How old was Octavia Butler when she died?", "output": "At the time of her death in 2006, Octavia Butler was 58 years old."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Farington is a civil parish in the South Ribble district of Lancashire, England. It contains seven listed buildings that are recorded in the National Heritage List for England. All of the listed buildings are designated at Grade II, the lowest of the three grades, which is applied to \"buildings of national importance and special interest\". The parish is largely residential and contains the former villages of Farington and Farington Moss. The listed buildings comprise houses and associated structures, and a church.\n Question: How many of Farington's buildings are designated Grade 3?", "output": "None of Farington's buildings are designated Grade 3. All of Farington's buildings are designated Grade II (Grade 2)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Arup Kumar Raychaudhuri (born 1 January 1952) is an Indian condensed matter physicist, materials scientist and a Distinguished Emeritus Professor at the S. N. Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences. Known for his pioneering work on the interplay of disorder and interaction, Raychaudhuri is an elected fellow of all the three major Indian science academies viz. Indian Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Sciences, India and Indian National Science Academy as well as the Asia-Pacific Academy of Materials. He is a recipient of a number of awards such as Millennium Medal of the Indian Science Congress, ICS Gold Medal of the Materials Research Society of India and FICCI Award. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, the apex agency of the Government of India for scientific research, awarded him the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology, one of the highest Indian science awards, for his contributions to physical sciences in 1994.[note 1]\n Question: What type of physicist is Arup Kumar Raychaudhuri?", "output": "Arup Kumar Raychaudhuri is a condensed matter physicists."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Fatemeh Pahlavi was born in Tehran on 30 October 1928. She was the tenth child of Reza Shah and his fourth and last wife, Esmat Dowlatshahi. Her mother was from the Qajar dynasty and married Reza Shah in 1923. Fatemeh was the full-sister of Abdul Reza Pahlavi, Ahmad Reza Pahlavi, Mahmoud Reza Pahlavi and Hamid Reza Pahlavi.\n Question: How many full siblings did Fatemeh Pahlavi have?", "output": "4 siblings: Abdul Reza Pahlavi, Ahmad Reza Pahlavi, Mahmoud Reza Pahlavi and Hamid Reza Pahlavi."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ruth Handler watched her daughter Barbara play with paper dolls, and noticed that she often enjoyed giving them adult roles. At the time, most children's toy dolls were representations of infants. Realizing that there could be a gap in the market, Handler suggested the idea of an adult-bodied doll to her husband Elliot, a co-founder of the Mattel toy company. He was unenthusiastic about the idea, as were Mattel's directors.\n\nDuring a trip to Europe in 1956 with her children Barbara and Kenneth, Ruth Handler came across a German toy doll called Bild Lilli. The adult-figured doll was exactly what Handler had in mind, so she purchased three of them. She gave one to her daughter and took the others back to Mattel. The Lilli doll was based on a popular character appearing in a comic strip drawn by Reinhard Beuthin for the newspaper Bild. Lilli was a blonde bombshell, a working girl who knew what she wanted and was not above using men to get it. The Lilli doll was first sold in Germany in 1955, and although it was initially sold to adults, it became popular with children who enjoyed dressing her up in outfits that were available separately.\n Question: Based on this text, what was Ruth Handler's inspiration for making the Barbie Doll?", "output": "Ruth Handler was inspired by the German Bild Lilli doll"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A person's last words, their final articulated words stated prior to death or as death approaches, are often recorded because of the decedent's fame, but sometimes because of interest in the statement itself. (People dying of illness are frequently inarticulate at the end, and in such cases their actual last utterances may not be recorded or considered very important.) Last words may be recorded accurately, or, for a variety of reasons, may not. Reasons can include simple error or deliberate intent. Even if reported wrongly, putative last words can constitute an important part of the perceived historical records or demonstration of cultural attitudes toward death at the time.\n Question: Is the recording of a person's last words reliable?", "output": "Sometimes it is, while other times it may contain errors or deliberately misquoted."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Original Joe's is a duo of restaurants in the North Beach neighborhood of San Francisco and the Westlake neighborhood of Daly City. They serve a wide variety of foods, mostly Italian-American cuisine with some mainstream American favorites. Their \"signature\" dishes include Joe's Special, Chicken Parmigiana, the Joe's Famous Hamburger Sandwich and a variety of steaks and chops.\n Question: What is Original Joe's restaurant and where are they located?", "output": "Original Joe's is a duo of restaurants in the North Beach neighborhood of San Francisco and the Westlake neighborhood of Daly City."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The game's English name derives from the Balti language, from its word for 'ball', polo. It is cognate with the Standard Tibetan pulu, also meaning 'ball'.\n\nAlthough the exact origins of the game are not certain, many scholars suggest it most likely began as a simple game played by Iranic and Turkic equestrian nomads in Central Asia. An archaic variation of polo, regionally referred to as buzkashi or kokpar, is still played in parts of Central Asia. It was developed and formalised in Ancient Iran (Persia) as \"chovgan\" (\u010dowg\u0101n), becoming a national sport played extensively by the nobility. Women played as well as men. During the period of the Parthian Empire (247 BC to 224 AD), the sport had great patronage under the kings and noblemen. According to The Oxford Dictionary of Late Antiquity, the Persian ball game was an important pastime in the court of the Sasanian Empire (224\u2013651). It was also part of the royal education for the Sasanian ruling class. Emperor Shapur II learnt to play polo at age seven in 316 AD.\n Question: During which year Emperor Shapur II learned to play polo?", "output": "316 AD"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Almost all of the music in World of Warcraft is orchestral, with a wide variety of classical and folk instruments in harmony, often playing widely transformative, non-repetitive melodies. While the player is in game, music is usually playing from a set of tracks composed to match the mood of the type of environment your character is in such as \"mountain\", \"forest\", \"plains\", \"jungle\", et cetera; while some individual zones and cities such as Elwynn Forest and Thunder Bluff are given their own set of tracks. Some environments play different music depending on the time of day you are in them.\n Question: What style of music is played in the World of Warcraft game?", "output": "Most of the music in World of Warcraft is orchestral, with a variety of classical and folk instruments in harmony."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tardigrades are the first known animal to survive after exposure to outer space. In September 2007, dehydrated tardigrades were taken into low Earth orbit on the FOTON-M3 mission carrying the BIOPAN astrobiology payload. For 10 days, groups of tardigrades, some of them previously dehydrated, some of them not, were exposed to the hard vacuum of outer space, or vacuum and solar UV radiation. Back on Earth, more than 68% of the subjects protected from solar UV radiation were reanimated within 30 minutes following rehydration, although subsequent mortality was high; many of these produced viable embryos. In contrast, hydrated samples exposed to the combined effect of vacuum and full solar UV radiation had significantly reduced survival, with only three subjects of Milnesium tardigradum surviving. Also, it was found that the space vacuum did not have a significant effect on egg-laying in either R. coronifer or M. tardigradum. However, M. tardigradum exposed to UV radiation had a lower egg laying rate. In May 2011, Italian scientists sent tardigrades on board the International Space Station along with extremophiles on STS-134, the final flight of Space Shuttle Endeavour. Their conclusion was that microgravity and cosmic radiation \"did not significantly affect survival of tardigrades in flight, and stated that tardigrades represent a useful animal for space research.\" In November 2011, they were among the organisms to be sent by the U.S.-based Planetary Society on the Russian Fobos-Grunt mission's Living Interplanetary Flight Experiment to Phobos; however, the launch failed. In August 2019, scientists reported that a capsule containing tardigrades in a cryptobiotic state may have survived for a while on the Moon after the April 2019 crash landing of Beresheet, a failed Israeli lunar lander, but in May 2021 it was reported that they were unlikely to have survived the impact.\n Question: Based on this paragraph when was the last time we sent them to space?", "output": "The last record of us sending Tardigrades into space was in April 2019, which had an unfortunate ending after the lunar lander, the Beresheet, failed and crash-landed on the moon."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The docu-series premiered on January 17, 2016, and focused on the 2016 U.S. presidential election, January to November. It was renewed for a second season, which premiered on March 19, 2017, and focused on President Trump's first 100 days. It returned on April 15, 2018 for a third season, and focused on the mid-term elections, with CBS News anchor Alex Wagner stepping in as co-host to replace Mark Halperin, who was replaced on January 3, 2018, by the show, after sexual harassment allegations. Jennifer Palmieri joined as guest host beginning October 13, 2019, with season four episode twelve, Desperate Times, Desperate Measures, and joined as a permanent co-host in season 6.\n Question: When was the the docu-series 'The Circus' created?", "output": "The Circus is an American television documentary series initially following the 2016 presidential race."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Many species of mushrooms seemingly appear overnight, growing or expanding rapidly. This phenomenon is the source of several common expressions in the English language including \"to mushroom\" or \"mushrooming\" (expanding rapidly in size or scope) and \"to pop up like a mushroom\" (to appear unexpectedly and quickly). In reality, all species of mushrooms take several days to form primordial mushroom fruit bodies, though they do expand rapidly by the absorption of fluids.\n Question: Given this paragraph about mushroom growth, why is it related to the English language expression \"to mushroom\"?", "output": "This is because many types of mushrooms exhibit rapid growth, seemingly overnight due to fluid absorption."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: K\u00f6nigsfeld is a municipality in the district of Ahrweiler, in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany.\n Question: Where is Koenigsfeld", "output": "Koenigsfeld is a municipality in the district of Ahrweiler, in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Optimus, also known as Tesla Bot, is a conceptual general-purpose robotic humanoid under development by Tesla, Inc. It was announced at the company's Artificial Intelligence (AI) Day event on August 19, 2021. CEO Elon Musk claimed during the event that Tesla would likely build a prototype by 2022. Musk is on record having said that he thinks Optimus \"has the potential to be more significant than the vehicle business over time.\"\n\nTesla Bot is planned to measure 5 ft 8 in (173 cm) tall and weigh 125 lb (57 kg). According to the presentation made during the first AI Day event, a Tesla Bot will be \"controlled by the same AI system Tesla is developing for the advanced driver-assistance system used in its cars\" and have a carrying capacity of 45 lb (20 kg). Proposed tasks for the product are ones that are \"dangerous, repetitive and boring\", such as providing manufacturing assistance.\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optimus_(robot)\n Question: Given these paragraphs about the Tesla bot, what is its alias?", "output": "Optimus"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Moore's first cancer was in 1964, two years before England's first World Cup win \u2014 a diagnosis of testicular cancer, treated by orchidectomy of one; it had not spread. In April 1991, Moore underwent an operation for suspected colorectal cancer. At the time it was reported as an \"emergency stomach operation\".\n\nOn 14 February 1993, he announced he was suffering from colorectal cancer and liver cancer; by this time it had spread. Three days later he commentated on an England match against San Marino at Wembley, alongside his friend Jonathan Pearce. Moore attended a dinner after the match and made a presentation. That was to be his final public act; seven days later on 24 February, at 6:36 am, he died at the age of 51.\n Question: What did Bobby Moore die from?", "output": "Booby Moore died aged 51 from colorectal and liver cancer."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Safer Internet Day is celebrated worldwide to raise awareness about online safety. Many people take safety on the internet for granted and for that reason it is important to educate people about possible data breaches. Childnet, as part of the UK Safer Internet Centre, coordinate Safer Internet Day in the UK. Safer Internet Day 2015 saw over  800 organizations in the UK taking part to help promote the safe, responsible and positive use of digital technology for children and young people. For the day the UK Safer Internet Centre launched a new study Friendship in a Digital Age and launched the #Up2Us film, which was made by 150 young people to inspire others to do something kind online.\n Question: Given the reference text below, what is Safer Internet Day?", "output": "Safer Internet Day raises awareness about internet safety for children and young people."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: John Emerich Edward Dalberg-Acton, 1st Baron Acton, 13th Marquess of Groppoli, KCVO, DL (10 January 1834 \u2013 19 June 1902), better known as Lord Acton, was an English Catholic historian, politician, and writer. He is best remembered for the remark he wrote in a letter to an Anglican bishop in 1887: \n\n\"Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely. Great men are almost always bad men\u2026\"\n\nIn 1870, along with his mentor D\u00f6llinger, Acton opposed the moves to promulgate the doctrine of papal infallibility in the First Vatican Council, travelling to Rome to lobby against it, ultimately unsuccessfully. Unlike D\u00f6llinger, Acton did not become an Old Catholic, and continued attending Mass regularly; he received the last rites on his deathbed. The Catholic Church did not try to force his hand. It was in this context that, in a letter he wrote to scholar and ecclesiastic Mandell Creighton, dated April 1887, Acton made his most famous pronouncement:\n\nBut if we might discuss this point until we found that we nearly agreed, and if we do agree thoroughly about the impropriety of Carlylese denunciations and Pharisaism in history, I cannot accept your canon that we are to judge Pope and King unlike other men, with a favourable presumption that they did no wrong. If there is any presumption it is the other way, against the holders of power, increasing as the power increases. Historic responsibility has to make up for the want of legal responsibility. Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely. Great men are almost always bad men, even when they exercise influence and not authority, still more when you superadd the tendency or the certainty of corruption by authority. There is no worse heresy than that the office sanctifies the holder of it. That is the point at which the negation of Catholicism and the negation of Liberalism meet and keep high festival, and the end learns to justify the means. You would hang a man of no position like Ravaillac; but if what one hears is true, then Elizabeth asked the gaoler to murder Mary, and William III of England ordered his Scots minister to extirpate a clan. Here are the greatest names coupled with the greatest crimes; you would spare those criminals, for some mysterious reason. I would hang them higher than Haman, for reasons of quite obvious justice, still more, still higher for the sake of historical science.\n\nThenceforth he steered clear of theological polemics. He devoted himself to reading, study and congenial society. With all his capacity for study, he was a man of the world and a man of affairs, not a bookworm. His only notable publications were a masterly essay in the Quarterly Review of January 1878 on \"Democracy in Europe;\" two lectures delivered at Bridgnorth in 1877 on \"The History of Freedom in Antiquity\" and \"The History of Freedom in Christianity\"\u2014these last the only tangible portions put together by him of his long-projected \"History of Liberty;\" and an essay on modern German historians in the first number of the English Historical Review, which he helped to found (1886). After 1879 he divided his time between London, Cannes, and Tegernsee in Bavaria, enjoying and reciprocating the society of his friends. In 1872 he had been given the honorary degree of Doctor of Philosophy by the University of Munich; in 1888 Cambridge gave him the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws, and in 1889 Oxford the Doctor of Civil Law; and in 1890 he received the high academic accolade of being made a fellow of All Souls College, Oxford.\n Question: Given this reference text, what was John Dalberg-Acton's most famous pronouncement, and to whom did he make it?", "output": "In a letter to Mandell Creighton, John Dalberg-Acton made his most famous pronouncement: \"Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely. Great men are almost always bad men, even when they exercise influence and not authority, still more when you superadd the tendency or the certainty of corruption by authority.\""}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As of 2021, the power and capacity of the largest individual battery storage power plants is an order of magnitude less than that of the largest pumped storage power plants, the most common form of grid energy storage. For example, the Bath County Pumped Storage Station, the second largest in the world, can store 24GWh of electricity and dispatch 3GW while the first phase of Vistra Energy's Moss Landing Energy Storage Facility can store 1.2GWh and dispatch 300MW. Grid batteries do not however have to be large, and smaller ones can be deployed widely across a grid for greater redundancy.\n\nAs of 2019, battery power storage is cheaper than open cycle gas turbine power for use up to two hours, and there was around 365 GWh of battery storage deployed worldwide, growing extremely rapidly. Levelized cost of electricity from battery storage has fallen rapidly, halving in two years to US$150 per MWh as of 2020.\n Question: Given these paragraphs about battery storage power stations, for how long battery power storage was cheaper than open cycle gas turbine power as of 2019?", "output": "As of 2019, battery power storage is cheaper than open cycle gas turbine power for use up to two hours."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Metamorphosis is a biological process by which an animal physically develops including birth transformation or hatching, involving a conspicuous and relatively abrupt change in the animal's body structure through cell growth and differentiation. Some insects, fish, amphibians, mollusks, crustaceans, cnidarians, echinoderms, and tunicates undergo metamorphosis, which is often accompanied by a change of nutrition source or behavior. Animals can be divided into species that undergo complete metamorphosis (\"holometaboly\"), incomplete metamorphosis (\"hemimetaboly\"), or no metamorphosis (\"ametaboly\").\n Question: What type of creatures undergo Metamorphosis?", "output": "Some insects, fish, amphibians, mollusks, crustaceans, cnidarians, echinoderms, and tunicates undergo metamorphosis"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher, LG, OM, DStJ, PC, FRS, HonFRSC (n\u00e9e Roberts; 13 October 1925 \u2013 8 April 2013), was a British politician and stateswoman who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1979 to 1990 and Leader of the Conservative Party from 1975 to 1990. She was the first female British prime minister and the longest-serving British prime minister of the 20th century. As prime minister, she implemented economic policies that became known as Thatcherism. A Soviet journalist dubbed her the \"Iron Lady\", a nickname that became associated with her uncompromising politics and leadership style.\n Question: Who was Margaret Thatcher?", "output": "Margaret Thatcher was the first woman to be elected prime minister of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, serving in this role from her first election victory in 1979 until she was forced out of office by members of her own party in 1990. During this time she transformed the economic situation in the United Kingdom by introducing economic policies intended to reverse high inflation and weak growth. By constraining the power of trades unions and overseeing extensive deregulation and privatisation, Thatcher helped to create a period of extended growth and economic success. Together with Ronald Reagan, she was also instrumental in recognising and supporting the opportunity to end communist rule in the Soviet Union, where she was dubbed the 'Iron Lady', through her friendship with the Russian leader, Mikhail Gorbachev. Her legacy was to end the so-called 'post-war consensus' in the UK (characterised by high taxes, regulation and nationalisation) and to replace it with policies that encouraged free-enterprise and personal responsibility while acknowledging the importance of the welfare state, provided it was administered responsibly. Although disliked by many on the left for the way that she challenged excessive union power, she is generally acknowledged as the most important British politician of the late twentieth century."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A number of non-WTC full distance triathlons have been held since the mid-1990s. The limited number of WTC-sanctioned events, and the limited number of entries available per race, have combined with a growth in the sport that has created demand for these non-trademarked events. Many of them share the 2.4-mile (3.9 km), 112-mile (180 km), 26.2-mile (42.2 km) format with the Ironman triathlon. Originally, many used the Ironman name. Due to aggressive trademark protection, most of these races no longer use the word \"Ironman\".\n Question: Given this paragraph about full distance ironman competition, how far is each discipline", "output": "The distances for a full ironman competition are 2.4 miles (3.9km) for the swim, 112 miles (180km) for the bike and 26.2 miles (42.2km) for the run."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Connie Passalacqua Hayman is an American journalist and educator. Passalacqua Hayman has written on a number of topics, but is noted for her reporting and critical analysis of daytime soap operas.\n\nCareer\nPassalacqua Hayman started her soap journalism career in 1980 as an assistant to newspaper columnist Jon-Michael Reed, \"the first soap journalist to review soaps as theater and edit soap magazines for intelligent readers.\" She has since written about the daytime industry for various publications and news organizations, including Newsday, United Features Syndicate, The New York Times, Variety, the New York Daily News, TV Guide and USA Today. She was the editor of Afternoon TV magazine from 1980 to 1983, an editor for Soap Opera World and a contributor for Soap Opera Digest, Soap Opera People and others.\n\nBetween 1995 and 2001, Passalacqua Hayman was an adjunct professor of journalism at New York University, and in 2001 she left writing full-time to earn a master's degree in education at NYU. She taught journalism at Marymount Manhattan College as an adjunct professor in the Communications Department from 2007 to 2014.\n Question: Given a reference text about Connie Passalacqua Hayman, tell me when and where taught journalism.", "output": "Connie Passalacqua Hayman taught journalism at New York University from 1995 to 2001 and at Marymount Manhattan College from 2007 to 2014."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pablo Ruiz Picasso (25 October 1881 \u2013 8 April 1973) was a Spanish painter, sculptor, printmaker, ceramicist and theatre designer who spent most of his adult life in France. One of the most influential artists of the 20th century, he is known for co-founding the Cubist movement, the invention of constructed sculpture, the co-invention of collage, and for the wide variety of styles that he helped develop and explore. Among his most famous works are the proto-Cubist Les Demoiselles d'Avignon (1907), and the anti-war painting Guernica (1937), a dramatic portrayal of the bombing of Guernica by German and Italian air forces during the Spanish Civil War.\n\nBorn: Pablo Diego Jos\u00e9 Francisco de Paula Juan Nepomuceno Mar\u00eda de los Remedios Cipriano de la Sant\u00edsima Trinidad Ruiz y Picasso\n25 October 1881\nM\u00e1laga, Kingdom of Spain\n Question: Given a reference text about Pablo Picasso, tell me when and where he was born, why he was famous, and what his most famous accomplishment was as a professional", "output": "Pablo Ruiz Picasso was born on 25 October 1881 in M\u00e1laga, Spain. He was a Spanish painter, sculptor, printmaker, ceramicist and theatre designer who spent most of his adult life in France. He is one of the most famous and influential artists of the 20th century because he co-founded the Cubist movement, the invention of constructed sculpture, co-invented collage, and he delveoped and explored a wide variety of other styles. Among his most famous works are the proto-Cubist Les Demoiselles d'Avignon (1907), and the anti-war painting Guernica (1937), a dramatic portrayal of the bombing of Guernica by German and Italian air forces during the Spanish Civil War."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The New York Hotel in Salt Lake City, Utah, at 42 Post Office Pl., was built in 1906. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n\nIt was a work of leading Salt Lake City architect Richard K.A. Kletting.\n\nIt is a three-story brick building designed to have shops on the ground floor and 62 hotel rooms above. Some hotel room suites had bathrooms; there were also single rooms served by a bathroom on each floor. It was \"completely modern\" in 1906, having both steam heat and electric lights. \n\nThe building is 49 feet (15 m) tall; the first/second/third floors are 14 feet (4.3 m), 10 feet (3.0 m), and 10.5 feet (3.2 m) tall, respectively.\n\nIt was built as a luxury hotel for Orange J. Salisbury, a mining engineer and businessman who obtained patents and started the United Filter Corporation.\n Question: Is there a New York Hotel in Salt Lake City", "output": "The New York Hotel in Salt Lake City, Utah, at 42 Post Office Pl., was built in 1906. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n\nIt was a work of leading Salt Lake City architect Richard K.A. Kletting.\n\nIt is a three-story brick building designed to have shops on the ground floor and 62 hotel rooms above. Some hotel room suites had bathrooms; there were also single rooms served by a bathroom on each floor. It was \"completely modern\" in 1906, having both steam heat and electric lights.\n\nThe building is 49 feet (15 m) tall; the first/second/third floors are 14 feet (4.3 m), 10 feet (3.0 m), and 10.5 feet (3.2 m) tall, respectively.\n\nIt was built as a luxury hotel for Orange J. Salisbury, a mining engineer and businessman who obtained patents and started the United Filter Corporation."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bull sharks mate during late summer and early autumn, often in bays and estuaries. After gestating for 12 months, a bull shark may give birth to 1 to 13 live young.\n\nThey are viviparous, born live and free-swimming. The young are about 70 cm (27.6 in) at birth. The bull shark does not rear its young; the young bull sharks are born into flat, protected areas. Coastal lagoons, river mouths, and other low-salinity estuaries are common nursery habitats.\n\nThe male bull shark is able to begin reproducing around the age of 15 years while the female cannot begin reproducing until the age of 18 years. The size of a fully matured female bull shark to produce viable eggs for fertilization seems to be 175 cm to 235 cm. The courting routine between bull sharks has not been observed in detail as of yet. The male likely bites the female on the tail until she can turn upside down and the male can copulate at that point. Mature females commonly have scratches from the mating process.\n Question: Given a reference text about bull sharks, tell me the gestation period for bull sharks.", "output": "The gestation period for bull sharks is 12 months."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 2021 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix (officially known as the Formula 1 Etihad Airways Abu Dhabi Grand Prix 2021) was a Formula One motor race held on 12 December 2021 at the Yas Marina Circuit in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Contested over a distance of 58 laps, the race was the twenty-second and final round of the 2021 Formula One World Championship. The race decided both the Drivers' and Constructors' championships; Max Verstappen and Lewis Hamilton both had 369.5 points coming into the race. Hamilton led most of the race and appeared on course to win what would have been a record eighth World Drivers' Championship, having taken the lead at the start of the race at turn 1 on the first lap. However Verstappen was the eventual winner, overtaking Hamilton on the final lap after a controversial safety car restart in the last moments of the race. The FIA thus conducted an inquiry into the race which led to a restructuring of race control including the replacement of Michael Masi as race director and amendments to the safety car rules. That inquiry subsequently concluded that the race officials had misapplied the then-regulations due to human error, but confirmed the results.\n\nVerstappen's win secured his first Formula One World Drivers' Championship of his career by eight points from Hamilton, and Red Bull Racing's first since 2013. Mercedes won their eighth consecutive Formula One World Constructors' Championship, setting a new record. The Grand Prix was also the final race for 2007 World Champion Kimi R\u00e4ikk\u00f6nen; the 42-year-old Finn retired from Formula One after a two-decade career spanning 349 Grands Prix starts.\n\nRace\n\nStart and opening laps\nThe race started at 17:00 local time on Sunday 12 December. Lewis Hamilton immediately took the lead from Max Verstappen on the race start, prompting Verstappen to attempt to regain his position at the turn 6 chicane. Verstappen's trajectory forced Hamilton off the track, and the Briton re-entered slightly further ahead of the Dutch driver than he was before the corner. Arguing that he should have ceded the position to Verstappen, Red Bull Racing protested the racing line taken by Hamilton, and were told by radio that Hamilton had ultimately given back any advantage gained. The incident was referred to the stewards, which concluded that no further investigation was necessary. Hamilton then utilised the durability of his medium-compound tyres to extend his lead over Verstappen, whose soft-compound tyres were suffering from greater degradation.\n\nPit-stops and virtual safety car\nVerstappen made his stop at the end of lap 13 with Hamilton following suit one lap later, both opting for a set of the hardest tyres. The lead drivers pitting elevated Sergio P\u00e9rez to first, with the Mexican driver being informed his strategy was to hold up Hamilton to allow his teammate Verstappen to catch up. Hamilton caught up with P\u00e9rez on lap 20; a spirited defence from the Red Bull second driver allowed Verstappen to significantly close the gap from about 11 seconds after the pits to 1.3 second. Verstappen was unable to take advantage of it, with Hamilton's superior pace extending the gap to four seconds by the midpoint of the race.\n\nFinal laps\nOn lap 53, a crash at turn 14 for Nicholas Latifi, who was fighting for position with Haas' Mick Schumacher and had dirty tyres after going off circuit at turn 9, brought out the safety car. Hamilton again stayed out without pitting because he would have lost track position had the safety car period not ended, while Verstappen pitted behind him for a fresh set of the softest available tyres. P\u00e9rez retired under the safety car due to oil pressure. After Verstappen's pit stop, he retained second, but with five lapped cars (those of Lando Norris, Fernando Alonso, Esteban Ocon, Charles Leclerc, and Sebastian Vettel) between himself and Hamilton (in first). As the debris from Latifi's crash was being cleared by the race marshals, the lapped drivers were initially informed that they would not be permitted to overtake. On lap 57 Masi gave the direction that only the five cars between Hamilton and Verstappen were to unlap themselves.\n\nImmediately after Vettel passed the safety car to join the lead lap, race control announced the safety car would enter the pits at the end of the lap to allow for a final lap of green-flag racing, leading to angry remonstrations from Mercedes team principal Toto Wolff. On the final lap, Verstappen used his fresh soft tyres to pass Hamilton into turn 5 to take the lead of the race. He held off counter-attacks from Hamilton to win the race and his first World Drivers' Championship, with Hamilton in second and Ferrari driver Carlos Sainz Jr. in third. AlphaTauri driver Yuki Tsunoda finished in a career-best fourth place, after overtaking Bottas. Mercedes gained enough points to win their eighth consecutive Constructors' title, extending their own record. Over the radio, Wolff appealed to Masi to reinstate the order of the penultimate lap, to which Masi gave the reply: \"Toto, it's called a motor race, ok? We went car racing.\"\n\nSafety car controversy\nMichael Masi was involved in a safety car procedure controversy during the last laps of the race. On lap 56 of the race, during which Hamilton was leading, Masi allowed only the five cars directly in between championship contenders Hamilton and Verstappen to unlap themselves before the restart. The race restarted, and on the final lap of the race, Verstappen overtook Hamilton and won the 2021 World Drivers' Championship.\n\nMercedes' post-race protests\nMercedes protested the race result, alleging that Verstappen had overtaken Hamilton during the safety car and that Masi violated safety car procedure by allowing the cars directly in front of Verstappen to unlap themselves, and no others, and that according to regulations the restart should have occurred the following lap, which would have resulted in Hamilton's victory. While the first issue was dismissed because Verstappen was not ahead at the end of the safety car period, the second issue was more contentious, with Mercedes retaining legal counsel for the protest. Mercedes argued that if a message for lapped cars to overtake is issued under Article 48.12, then all lapped cars are required to unlap, and that the safety car was required to wait until the end of the following lap to return to the pit lane; if this process was complied with, Mercedes submitted that Hamilton would have won the race and therefore the championship, and requested that the classification be amended as such. Red Bull argued that a) the regulation stated \"any cars\", not \"all cars\", were required to overtake under Articles 48.12; b) 48.13, which governs the withdrawal of the safety car, overrides Article 48.12; c) Article 15.3 gives the race director overriding authority over the use of the safety car; and d) the race result would not have changed if all eight lapped cars were permitted to unlap. Masi argued that the principle behind Article 48.12 was to remove cars which \"interfered\" with drivers racing on the lead lap and that all teams had agreed in principle that all races should end under racing conditions.\n\nThe clerk of the course shall work in permanent consultation with the Race Director. The Race Director shall have overriding authority in the following matters and the clerk of the course may give orders in respect of them only with his express agreement: ... e) The use of the safety car.\n\n\nMercedes lodged their intentions to appeal the ruling. Following the FIA's announcement that it would conduct a \"detailed analysis and clarification exercise\" of the incident and its admission that the controversy was \"tarnishing the image\" of the sport, Mercedes decided not to pursue their appeal, and announced the discontinuation of their protest on 16 December, several hours before the submission deadline. Amongst the reasons to discontinue, Wolff said that neither he nor Hamilton wished to be awarded the drivers' championship in court, and instead would focus their efforts in to ensuring an equitable result from the FIA's investigation into the sporting code. Wolff remained heavily critical of Masi's direction of the race\u2014in particular, Wolff criticised Masi's decision in Abu Dhabi as being inconsistent with a decision at the 2020 Eifel Grand Prix, where Masi cited the need to let all cars unlap to extend a safety car period\u2014and both he and Hamilton boycotted the FIA Prize Giving Ceremony that evening. Hamilton was later fined for not attending; he asked the FIA to donate the fine as contribution towards the work the body carries out with underprivileged children. The statement also fuelled speculation that Hamilton could announce a snap retirement after being disillusioned by the race's events, although Wolff indicated both he and his driver would continue in the sport after a period of reflection in the off-season.\n\nRace reactions and commentary\nIn the immediate post-race interview, Hamilton and his father Anthony congratulated Verstappen and his family on his first World Drivers' Championship.\n\nSeveral drivers criticised Masi's decision which was seen as a divergence from standard safety car procedure. In a last-lap radio message to his race engineer Peter Bonnington, that was not played on the television feed, Hamilton said the race result had been \"manipulated\". Russell, who was signed to be Hamilton's teammate at Mercedes in 2022, called the race finishing decision of race director Michael Masi \"unacceptable\". Norris, who was situated at the front of the five cars permitted to unlap, said the decision to go racing again on the last lap was made \"for TV\", and Alonso, Ocon, Leclerc, and Vettel, the drivers of the other four cars in the pack, also expressed confusion at the sudden instruction to unlap. Daniel Ricciardo, who was situated immediately behind Verstappen during the safety car period and was not permitted to unlap himself, said he was \"speechless\" at the instruction, especially as it did not allow him to also race the five-car pack on newer soft-compound tyres, and Sainz Jr., who was positioned behind Ricciardo and Lance Stroll's cars upon the restart and was under pressure from Yuki Tsunoda, Pierre Gasly, and Valtteri Bottas, opined that the decision to resume racing under the circumstances \"nearly cost [him his] podium\". Speaking at Aston Martin's 2022 car launch in February 2022, Lance Stroll described the Abu Dhabi situation as \"ridiculous\" and that rules should be set in stone before a season starts.\n Question: Based on the information provided, what was the controversy surrounding the 2021 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix?", "output": "While there was a lot of complexity based on the circumstances that occurred, the prevailing controversy with the race was related to the fact that lapped cars were only partially allowed to clear the track. This meant that Max Verstappen was cleared to attack Lewis Hamilton on fresher tyres for the last part of the final lap. Lewis and Max both needed to win the final race to win the championship. This would have been Max's first ever championship or Lewis' record-breaking 8th championship. By allowing only the cars between Max and Lewis, the race director only partially adhered to the rules. This virtually handed the win to Max and Red Bull. While Mercedes immediately protested the decision and final result. Max was awarded the championship."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Through the 134th Westminster Show (February 2010), Best in Show has been won by the Terrier group 45 out of the 103 times that the prize has been awarded since 1907, more than twice as many wins as any other group. The single breed that has won the most is the Wire Fox Terrier, which has won 15 times. Two of the most popular dog breeds in the United States\u2014the Labrador Retriever and Golden Retriever\u2014have never won Best in Show. The dogs are marked for Best in Breed and then proceed to compete in Best in Group, and finally in the grand prize competition of Best in Show\n Question: What breed is most likely to win a dog show", "output": "The Wire Fox Terrier is to date, the winningest breed at the Westminster Show with 15 total wins. Terriers in general have won over 40% of the Best in Show competitions across the long history of the show."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Lotus Mark IX (1955) was an aluminium-bodied sports racing car manufactured by Lotus Engineering Ltd. About thirty of the Mark IX sports racing cars were made. It was closely related to the Lotus model Mark VIII (1954), of which only about seven cars were made. These cars were largely based on the innovative space frame of the Lotus Mark VI (1952). The highly aerodynamic bodies were designed by Frank Costin and constructed by Williams & Pritchard Limited.\n\nDuring this early era, of 1954\u20131955, Lotus Engineering was still a fledgling company, and cars were delivered in different states of completion on special orders. Similar to the Mark VIII, the Mark IX was available in various configurations and different engines, including the 1500 cc MG, 1500 cc Connaught and 2-litre Bristol were fitted. However, the Mark IX designation is most often powered by the 1100 cc Coventry Climax engine. Apparently, two models of Mark IX were offered \u2013 the \"Club\" and the \"Le Mans\", the latter of which had larger drum brakes fitted.\n Question: Given a reference text about Lotus Mark IX, who designed the car?", "output": "The Lotus Mark IX was designed by Frank Costin."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Tampa Convention Center is a mid-sized convention center located in downtown Tampa, Florida at the mouth of the Hillsborough River. It has both waterfront views of Tampa Bay and views of the city's skyline. Harbour Island is across the eponymous bridge on the other side of the Garrison Channel. The center is connected to the neighboring Channelside District and Ybor City via the TECO Line Streetcar, which has a station across the street. The center opened in 1990 and encompasses 600,000 square feet (56,000 m2) in total. It has a 200,000 square feet (19,000 m2) exhibit hall, a ballroom capable of accommodating over 2,000 guests, and 36 meeting rooms that can be adjusted to various sizes. The facility hosts over 300 events per year.\n Question: Given a reference text bout the Tampa Convention Center, when did it open and how big is it?", "output": "The Tampa Convention Center opened in 1990 and is about 600,000 square feet."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The aid of the Association was also given to the formation of a class of women for the study of advanced chemistry at the laboratory of the Girls' High School. This class was found to meet so great a want that a chemical laboratory has been fitted up in connection with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and furnished by money collected by the association with apparatus and instruments, such as microscopes, spectroscopes, &c. From time to time pecuniary aid has also been given to young women seeking an advanced education. But the chief work of the Association \u2014the first undertaken and still carried on under its charge- is a plan of examinations known as the Harvard Examinations for Women. These originated in a desire to raise the standard of education in the schools for girls, and are held under the personal supervision of members of the Association. Examination papers, prepared by Professors at Harvard University, are provided by the Association, and those women who successfully pass this examination receive a certificate from the university stating the fact. Branch societies have been established in New York City, Philadelphia, and Cincinnati for the same purpose.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Women's Education Association, which institutions of higher learning had affiliations with the Association?", "output": "The Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Greenmantle is the second of five novels by John Buchan featuring the character Richard Hannay. It was first published in 1916 by Hodder & Stoughton, London. It is one of two Hannay novels set during the First World War, the other being Mr Standfast (1919); Hannay's first and best-known adventure, The Thirty-Nine Steps (1915), is set in the period immediately preceding the war.\n Question: Given this paragraph, who wrote \"Greenmantle?\"", "output": "John Buchan"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The first popular web browser with a graphical user interface, Mosaic, was released in 1993. Accessible to non-technical people, it played a prominent role in the rapid growth of the nascent World Wide Web. The lead developers of Mosaic then founded the Netscape corporation, which released a more polished browser, Netscape Navigator, in 1994. This quickly became the most-used.\n\nDuring these formative years of the Web, web pages could only be static, lacking the capability for dynamic behavior after the page was loaded in the browser. There was a desire in the flourishing web development scene to remove this limitation, so in 1995, Netscape decided to add a scripting language to Navigator. They pursued two routes to achieve this: collaborating with Sun Microsystems to embed the Java programming language, while also hiring Brendan Eich to embed the Scheme language.\n Question: Which programming languages did Netscape try to add to their browser in order to make it more dynamic?", "output": "The programming languages Netscape tried to add to their browser to make it more dynamic were Java and Scheme.\n\nIn 1995, Netscape pursued two routes to add dynamic behavior to their browser, Netscape Navigator:\n1. Collaborating with Sun Microsystems to embed the Java programming language\n2. Hiring Brendan Eich to embed the Scheme language"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Joseph A. Garcia (born March 21, 1957) is an American lawyer and politician. He served as the 48th Lieutenant Governor of Colorado from January 2011 to May 2016.\n\nEarly life, education and career\nJoseph A. Garcia was born on March 21, 1957, in Lafayette, Indiana. He attended Austin E. Lathrop High School in Fairbanks, Alaska from 1973 to 1974 and graduated from T.C. Williams High School in Alexandria, Virginia in 1975. He graduated from the University of Colorado Boulder in 1979 where he received a Bachelor of Science in Business. Garcia then graduated from Harvard Law School in 1983.\n\nAfter law school, Garcia took a job with the firm of Holme Roberts & Owen, going on to become their first Hispanic partner. Garcia worked with the firm from 1983 to 1993. Garcia was appointed by Governor Romer as the Executive Director of the Department of Regulatory Agencies in 1993. In 1999 Garcia was appointed by the White House as the Regional Director of the Rocky Mountain States for the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.\n Question: Given a reference text about Joseph A. Garcia, tell me what high school and college he attended.", "output": "Joseph A. Garcia attended Austin E. Lathrop High School and T.C. Williams High School. After high school, he attended the University of Colorado Boulder and Harvard Law School."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Associazione Calcio Milan (Italian pronunciation: [assot\u0283at\u02c8tsjo\u02d0ne \u02c8kalt\u0283o \u02c8mi\u02d0lan]), commonly referred to as AC Milan (Italian pronunciation: [a \u02c8t\u0283i \u02c8mi\u02d0lan]) or simply Milan (Italian pronunciation: [mi\u02d0lan]), is a professional football club in Milan, Italy, founded in 1899. The club has spent its entire history, with the exception of the 1980\u201381 and 1982\u201383 seasons, in the top flight of Italian football, known as Serie A since 1929\u201330.\n\nAC Milan's 18 FIFA and UEFA trophies is the fourth highest out of any club (joint with Boca Juniors[nb 1]), and the most out of any Italian club. Milan has won a joint record three Intercontinental Cups and one FIFA Club World Cup, seven European Cup/Champions League titles (Italian record), the UEFA Super Cup a joint record five times and the Cup Winners' Cup twice. With 19 league titles, Milan is tied as the second most successful club in Serie A with local rivals Inter Milan (also with 19 league titles), behind Juventus (36 league titles). They have also won the Coppa Italia five times, and the Supercoppa Italiana seven.\n\nMilan's home games are played at San Siro, also known as the Stadio Giuseppe Meazza. The stadium, which was built by Milan's second chairman Piero Pirelli in 1926 and is shared since 1947 with city rivals Internazionale, is the largest in Italian football, with a total capacity of 75,923. They have a long-standing rivalry with Inter, with whom they contest the Derby della Madonnina which is one of the most followed derbies in football.\n\nThe club is one of the wealthiest in Italian and world football. It was a founding member of the now-defunct G-14 group of Europe's leading football clubs as well as its replacement, the European Club Association.\n Question: Given the reference text about AC Milan, how many FIFA and UEFA trophies have they won?", "output": "AC Milan has won 18 FIFA and UEFA trophies, which is the fourth most out of any club."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Mercury Seven were the group of seven astronauts selected to fly spacecraft for Project Mercury. They are also referred to as the Original Seven and Astronaut Group 1. Their names were publicly announced by NASA on April 9, 1959; these seven original American astronauts were Scott Carpenter, Gordon Cooper, John Glenn, Gus Grissom, Wally Schirra, Alan Shepard, and Deke Slayton. The Mercury Seven created a new profession in the United States, and established the image of the American astronaut for decades to come.\n\nAll of the Mercury Seven eventually flew in space. They piloted the six spaceflights of the Mercury program that had an astronaut on board from May 1961 to May 1963, and members of the group flew on all of the NASA human spaceflight programs of the 20th century \u2013 Mercury, Gemini, Apollo, and the Space Shuttle.\n\nShepard became the first American to enter space in 1961, and later walked on the Moon on Apollo 14 in 1971. Grissom flew the first crewed Gemini mission in 1965, but died in 1967 in the Apollo 1 fire; the others all survived past retirement from service. Schirra flew Apollo 7 in 1968, the first crewed Apollo mission, in Grissom's place. Slayton, grounded with an atrial fibrillation, ultimately flew on the Apollo\u2013Soyuz Test Project in 1975. The first American in orbit in 1962, Glenn flew on the Space Shuttle Discovery in 1998 to become, at age 77, the oldest person to fly in space at the time. He was the last living member of the Mercury Seven when he died in 2016 at age 95.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Mercury Seven. Who did not survive to reach retirement and what was the cause of their death?", "output": "Only Gus Grissom did not survive to reach retirement. All others survived past retirement from service. The cause of his death is the Apollo 1 fire."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Grateful Dead was founded in the San Francisco Bay Area amid the rise of the counterculture of the 1960s. The founding members were Jerry Garcia (lead guitar, vocals), Bob Weir (rhythm guitar, vocals), Ron \"Pigpen\" McKernan (keyboards, harmonica, vocals), Phil Lesh (bass, vocals), and Bill Kreutzmann (drums). Members of the Grateful Dead, originally known as the Warlocks, had played together in various Bay Area ensembles, including the traditional jug band Mother McCree's Uptown Jug Champions. Lesh was the last member to join the Warlocks before they changed their name to the Grateful Dead; replacing Dana Morgan Jr., who had played bass for a few gigs. Drummer Mickey Hart and non-performing lyricist Robert Hunter joined in 1967. With the exception of McKernan, who died in 1973, and Hart, who took time off from 1971 to 1974, the core of the band stayed together for its entire 30-year history. The other official members of the band are Tom Constanten (keyboards; 1968\u20131970), John Perry Barlow (non-performing lyricist; 1971\u20131995), Keith Godchaux (keyboards, occasional vocals; 1971\u20131979), Donna Godchaux (vocals; 1972\u20131979), Brent Mydland (keyboards, vocals; 1979\u20131990), and Vince Welnick (keyboards, vocals; 1990\u20131995). Bruce Hornsby (accordion, piano, vocals) was a touring member from 1990 to 1992, as well as a guest with the band on occasion before and after the tours.\n Question: Given this reference text about the Grateful Dead, tell me who their keyboard players were over the years.", "output": "Ron \"Pigpen\" McKernan was the original keyboard player of the Grateful Dead. Others to play keyboards for the Grateful Dead include Tom Constanten, Keith Godchaux, Brent Mydland and Vince Welnick."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"I'm Just a Singer (In a Rock and Roll Band)\" is a 1973 hit single by the English progressive rock band the Moody Blues, written by the band's bassist, John Lodge. It was first released in 1972 as the final track on the album Seventh Sojourn and was later released as a single in 1973, with \"For My Lady\" as its B-side. It was the second single released from Seventh Sojourn, with the first being \"Isn't Life Strange\", which was also written by Lodge.\n\nThe song reached number 12 on the Billboard Hot 100 in the US, becoming one of their highest-charting hits in that country, but fared less well in their native UK, where it managed number 36. It was also the final single released by the Moody Blues prior to their five-year hiatus, which was agreed upon so each of the band members could pursue their own solo careers. Their next single would not be until 1978, with \"Steppin' in a Slide Zone\".\n Question: When was \"I'm Just a Singer (In a Rock and Roll Band)\" released?", "output": "\"I'm Just a Singer (In a Rock and Roll Band)\" was originally released in 1972 as the final track on the album Seventh Sojourn and was later released as a single in 1973."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kolkata also known as Calcutta (the official name until 2001) is the capital of the Indian state of West Bengal, on the eastern bank of the Hooghly River 80 km (50 mi) west of the border with Bangladesh. It is the primary business, commercial, and financial hub of Eastern India and the main port of communication for North-East India. According to the 2011 Indian census, Kolkata is the seventh-most populous city in India, with a population of 45 lakh (4.5 million) residents within the city. It is a part of Kolkata Metropolitan Area (or known as Greater Kolkata) which has a population of over 1.41 crore (14.1 million) residents making it the third-most populous metropolitan area in India. In 2021, the Kolkata metropolitan area crossed 1.5 crore (15 million) registered voters. The Port of Kolkata is India's oldest operating port and its sole major riverine port. Kolkata is regarded as the cultural capital of India. Kolkata is the second largest Bengali-speaking city after Dhaka. It has the highest number of nobel laureates among all cities in India.\n Question: How many years has it been since the city of Calcutta was officially renamed Kolkata?", "output": "It has been 22 years since Calcutta was renamed Kolkata."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Food historian Lois Ellen Frank calls potatoes, tomatoes, corn, beans, squash, chili, cacao, and vanilla the \"magic eight\" ingredients that were found and used only in the Americas before 1492 and were taken via the Columbian Exchange back to the Old World, dramatically transforming the cuisine there. According to Frank,\nIf we deconstruct that these foods were inherently native, then that means that the Italians didn't have the tomato, the Irish didn't have the potato, half the British National Dish\u2014Fish and Chips\u2014didn't exist. The Russians didn't have the potato, nor did they have vodka from the potato. There were no chiles in any Asian cuisine anywhere in the world, nor were there any chiles in any East Indian cuisine dishes, including curries. And the French had no confection using either vanilla or chocolate. So the Old World was a completely different place.\n Question: Spanish patatas bravas are potatoes served with a red sauce made with tomatoes and chilis. Could patatas bravas have existed in 1490?", "output": "No, patatas bravas could not have existed in 1490. This is because in 1490 the Americas had not yet been visited by Europeans, and so Spaniards didn't have access to the potatoes, tomatoes or chilis present in the dish, because those plants are all from the Americas originally."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The first modern swim/bike/run event was held at Mission Bay, San Diego, California on September 25, 1974. The race was conceived and directed by two members of the San Diego Track Club, Jack Johnstone and Don Shanahan. Johnstone recalls that he was a part of the 70s jogging craze in America and that after entering a few races he was not regaining his \"mediocre fitness\" despite having been a member of the 1957 Collegiate and AAU All-American swim teams. Then in 1973, Johnstone learned of the Dave Pain Birthday Biathlon, a 7.2 km (4.5 mi) run followed by what was billed as a quarter-mile (0.4 km) swim (the actual distance was only between 200 and 300 yards). The following year, after competing in the event for the second time and placing in the top ten, Johnstone desired more of this style of race and with equal emphasis on the swim. So he petitioned the chairman of the San Diego Track Club who told him he would add a race to the club calendar. But the rest of the race was up to Johnstone to organise, and at the same time he was to contact Don Shanahan so there wouldn't be too many \"weird\" races on the club schedule. Shanahan told Johnstone that he wanted to include a biking leg to the race; whilst hesitant Johnstone agreed to the addition. When naming the event the pair used the unofficially agreed naming system for multisport events, already used for pentathlon, heptathlon, and decathlon. So they used the Greek prefix tri (three) for the number of events, followed by the already familiar athlon, hence naming the event the Mission Bay Triathlon. It is worthy of note that neither founder had heard of the French events; both believed their race was a unique idea.\n\nOn Wednesday, September 25, 1974, the race started. It began with a run of a 4.8 km (3 mi) loop, followed by biking twice around Fiesta Island for a total of 8.0 km (5 mi). Entrants would then get off the bikes, take their shoes off and run into the water to swim to the mainland. That was followed by running in bare feet, then swimming again along the bay, then one last swim up to the entrance of Fiesta Island, and a final crawl up a steep dirt bank to finish. Most participants were not skilled swimmers, so Johnstone recruited his 13-year-old son to float on his surfboard and act as lifeguard. Some participants took longer than expected, and it began to get dark as they finished their swims. Shanahan recalls they pulled up a few cars and turned on the headlights so the athletes could see. Johnstone and Shanahan were surprised by the large number of entrants (46), mainly coming from local running clubs. Two notable entrants, Judy and John Collins, would four years later found the event which brought international attention to the new sport: the Hawaii Ironman.\n Question: Given a reference text on the beginnings of triathlon, tell me where the event was first held, in what year, and what sport was first in the sequence of the race.", "output": "The first triathlon occurred in San Diego, California in 1974. Unlike today's events, the triathlon began with a run."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Atlassian Corporation (/\u0259t\u02c8l\u00e6si\u0259n/) is an Australian software company that develops products for software developers, project managers and other software development teams. The company is domiciled in Delaware, with global headquarters in Sydney, Australia, and US headquarters in San Francisco.\n Question: Where was Atlassian founded?", "output": "Atlassian Corporation was founded in Australia, but is domeciled in Delaware, with global headquarters in Sydney, Australia, and US headquarters in San Francisco."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Little Street (Het Straatje) is a painting by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer, executed c. 1657-1658. It is exhibited at the Rijksmuseum of Amsterdam, and signed, below the window in the lower left-hand corner, \"I V MEER\".\n Question: From the paragraph about the painting, \"The Little Street\", tell me the painting's significance with reference to the Dutch Golden Age in that period.", "output": "Vermeer's \"The Little Street\" is significant in the context of the Dutch Golden Age movement as it depicts a typical aspect of life in a Dutch Golden Age town during the 17th century. It is one of only two known Vermeer paintings of views of Delft, the others being \"View of Delft\". Its attention to detail, the use of light, and the realistic portrayal of everyday life are characteristic of the Dutch Golden Age movement's focus on realism and domesticity in art."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A circular economy (also referred to as circularity and CE) is a model of production and consumption, which involves sharing, leasing, reusing, repairing, refurbishing and recycling existing materials and products for as long as possible. CE aims to tackle global challenges such as climate change, biodiversity loss, waste, and pollution by emphasizing the design-based implementation of the three base principles of the model. The three principles required for the transformation to a circular economy are: eliminating waste and pollution, circulating products and materials, and the regeneration of nature. CE is defined in contradistinction to the traditional linear economy. The idea and concepts of circular economy (CE) have been studied extensively in academia, business, and government over the past ten years. CE has been gaining popularity because it helps to minimize emissions and consumption of raw materials, open up new market prospects and principally, increase the sustainability of consumption and improve resource efficiency.\n\nAt a government level, CE is viewed as means of combating global warming as well as a facilitator of long-term growth. CE may geographically connect actors and resources to stop material loops at the regional level. In its core principle, the European Parliament defines CE as, \u201ca model of production and consumption, which involves sharing, leasing, reusing, repairing, refurbishing and recycling existing materials and products as long as possible. In this way, the life cycle of products is extended.\u201d\n\nIn a linear economy, natural resources are turned into products that are ultimately destined to become waste because of the way they have been designed and manufactured. This process is often summarized by \"take, make, waste\". By contrast, a circular economy employs reuse, sharing, repair, refurbishment, remanufacturing and recycling to create a closed-loop system, reducing the use of resource inputs and the creation of waste, pollution and carbon emissions. The circular economy aims to keep products, materials, equipment and infrastructure in use for longer, thus improving the productivity of these resources. Waste materials and energy should become input for other processes through waste valorization: either as a component for another industrial process or as regenerative resources for nature (e.g., compost). The Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF) defines the circular economy as an industrial economy that is restorative or regenerative by value and design.\n Question: How is a circular economy different than the USA's economy?", "output": "A circular economy focuses on the principles of eliminating waste and pollution, circulating products and materials, and the regeneration of nature. In contrast, most capitalistic economies are called \"linear\" in that raw materials are turned into products which are eventually discarded. While a circular economy focuses on sustainable consumption on an Earth with limited resources, linear economies like the USA's implicitly assume a never-ending supply of raw material inputs."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: KITS (105.3 FM, \"105.3 Dave FM\") is a commercial radio station in San Francisco, California. Owned by Audacy, Inc., it broadcasts an adult hits radio format. The studios and offices are co-located with formerly co-owned KPIX-TV on Battery Street in the North Beach district of San Francisco.\n\nKITS's transmitter is located on Radio Road, at San Bruno Mountain in Daly City. It has an effective radiated power (ERP) of 15,000 watts, from a tower at 366 meters (1,201 feet) in height above average terrain. KITS broadcasts in the HD Radio format. Its HD2 subchannel formerly aired a gold-based modern rock format as Classic Live 105, inspired by its previous long-time tenure in the format as Live 105. The HD3 subchannel formerly carried \"Radio Zindagi,\" a South Asian radio service. These subchannels have since been turned off.\n Question: Given this paragraph about KITS, tell me what station it's on and where its radio tower is located.", "output": "KITS plays on 105.3FM in San Francisco, California. Its radio tower is located on Radio Road at San Bruno Mountain in Daly City."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pinot Gris, Pinot Grigio (US: /\u02c8pi\u02d0no\u028a \u02c8\u0261ri\u02d0d\u0292io\u028a, -d\u0292o\u028a/, UK: /\u02c8\u0261r\u026ad\u0292io\u028a/) or Grauburgunder is a white wine grape variety of the species Vitis vinifera. Thought to be a mutant clone of the Pinot Noir variety, it normally has a grayish-blue fruit, accounting for its name, but the grapes can have a brownish pink to black and even white appearance. The word pinot could have been given to it because the grapes grow in small pinecone-shaped clusters. The wines produced from this grape also vary in color from a deep golden yellow to copper and even a light shade of pink, and it is one of the more popular grapes for skin-contact wine.\n\nPinot Gris is grown around the globe, with the \"spicy\" full-bodied Alsatian and lighter-bodied, more acidic Italian styles being most widely recognized. The Alsatian style, often duplicated in New World wine regions such as Marlborough, Tasmania, South Australia, Washington, Oregon, and South Africa tend to have moderate to low acidity, higher alcohol levels and an almost \"oily\" texture that contributes to the full-bodied nature of the wine. The flavors can range from ripe tropical fruit notes of melon and mango to some botrytis-influenced flavors. In Italy, Pinot grigio grapes are often harvested early to retain the refreshing acidity and minimize some of the overt-fruitiness of the variety, creating a more neutral flavor profile. This style is often imitated in other Old World wine regions, such as Germany, where the grape is known as Rul\u00e4nder, or more commonly, Grauburgunder.\n Question: What is Pinot Grigio?", "output": "Pinot Gris, Pinot Grigio (US: /\u02c8pi\u02d0no\u028a \u02c8\u0261ri\u02d0d\u0292io\u028a, -d\u0292o\u028a/, UK: /\u02c8\u0261r\u026ad\u0292io\u028a/) or Grauburgunder is a white wine grape variety of the species Vitis vinifera. Pinot Gris is grown around the globe, with the \"spicy\" full-bodied Alsatian and lighter-bodied, more acidic Italian styles being most widely recognized."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: One origin story holds that Reuben Kulakofsky (his first name sometimes spelled Reubin; his last name sometimes shortened to Kay), a Lithuanian-born Jewish grocer residing in Omaha, Nebraska, asked for a sandwich made of corned beef and sauerkraut at his weekly poker game held in the Blackstone Hotel from around 1920 through 1935. The participants, who nicknamed themselves \"the committee\", included the hotel's owner, Charles Schimmel. Schimmel's son, who worked in the kitchen, made the first Reuben for him, adding Swiss cheese and thousand island dressing to his order, putting the whole thing on rye bread. The sandwich first gained local fame when Schimmel put it on the Blackstone's lunch menu, and its fame spread when a former employee of the hotel won the national sandwich idea contest with the recipe. In Omaha, Nebraska, March 14 was proclaimed Reuben Sandwich Day.\n\nAnother account holds that the Reuben's creator was Arnold Reuben, the German-Jewish owner of Reuben's Delicatessen (1908\u20132001) in New York City. According to an interview with Craig Claiborne, Arnold Reuben created the \"Reuben Special\" around 1914. Bernard Sobel in his 1953 book, Broadway Heartbeat: Memoirs of a Press Agent states that the sandwich was an extemporaneous creation for Marjorie Rambeau, inaugurated when the Broadway actress visited the Reuben's Delicatessen one night when the cupboards were particularly bare.\n\nStill other versions give credit to Alfred Scheuing, a chef at Reuben's Delicatessen, and say he created the sandwich for Reuben's son, Arnold Jr., in the 1930s.\n Question: Given this text, tell me the inventor of the Rueben sandwich and where it was invented.", "output": "There is no single agreed inventor of the Reuben sandwich. The text gives these possible answers:\n*  Reuben Kulakofsky invented the sandwich in Omaha, Nebraska\n* Arnold Reuben invented the sandwich at Reuben's Delicatessen in New York City\n* Alfred Scheuing invented the sandwich at Reuben's Delicatessen in New York City"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Dick Lammi (January 15, 1909 \u2013 November 29, 1969) was an American jazz tubist and bassist associated with Dixieland jazz. Lammi played violin and banjo early in his career, and played as a banjoist in various groups in the Pacific Northwest in the late 1920s. He settled in Portland, Oregon in the early 1930s, and played bass in a group there; after a move to San Francisco in 1936, he began playing tuba alongside bass. His best-known work was as a member of Lu Watters's band, the Yerba Buena Jazz Band. Lammi played in the ensemble from 1941 to 1950, including on virtually all of their recordings.\n Question: What was Dick Lammi's most famous work?", "output": "Dick Lammi was most famous for his work as a member of Lu Watters's band, the Yerba Buena Jazz Band."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: American Fantasy Press is a science fiction/fantasy/horror specialty press owned and operated by Robert T. Garcia and Nancy Garcia. Located in Woodstock, Illinois, the press has published: The first U.S. hardcover edition of Dennis Etchison's Darkside (A 10th anniversary edition); the chapbook edition of The Man on the Ceiling by Steve Rasnic and Melanie Tem, the chapbook of A Walking Tour of the Shambles by Neil Gaiman and Gene Wolfe, the first U.S. hardcover edition of Michael Moorcock's The Dreamthief's Daughter (a signed, limited edition), the chapbook The Broecker Sampler, featuring the artwork of Randy Broecker, a broadsheet of Jo Fletcher's poem Midnight Monster illustrated by Gahan Wilson, and the first hardcover edition of the Mary Frances Zambreno's short story collection Invisible Pleasures. It published the fantasy short story collection by Mike Resnick, Stalking the Zombie which features his hard-boiled detective John J. Mallory in an alternate Manhattan. In 2015, the press published The Collectors' Book of Virgil Finlay, by Robert Weinberg, Douglas Ellis and AF publisher Robert Garcia.\n Question: What kind of publisher is the American Fantasy Press", "output": "American Fantasy Press is a science fiction/fantasy/horror specialty press owned and operated by Robert T. Garcia and Nancy Garcia. \n\nLocated in Woodstock, Illinois, the press has published: The first U.S. hardcover edition of Dennis Etchison's Darkside (A 10th anniversary edition); the chapbook edition of The Man on the Ceiling by Steve Rasnic and Melanie Tem, the chapbook of A Walking Tour of the Shambles by Neil Gaiman and Gene Wolfe, the first U.S. hardcover edition of Michael Moorcock's The Dreamthief's Daughter (a signed, limited edition), the chapbook The Broecker Sampler, featuring the artwork of Randy Broecker, a broadsheet of Jo Fletcher's poem Midnight Monster illustrated by Gahan Wilson, and the first hardcover edition of the Mary Frances Zambreno's short story collection Invisible Pleasures. \n\nIt published the fantasy short story collection by Mike Resnick, Stalking the Zombie which features his hard-boiled detective John J. Mallory in an alternate Manhattan. In 2015, the press published The Collectors' Book of Virgil Finlay, by Robert Weinberg, Douglas Ellis and AF publisher Robert Garcia."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Swift has won 12 Grammy Awards (including three for Album of the Year\u2014tying for the most by an artist), an Emmy Award, 40 American Music Awards (the most won by an artist),29 Billboard Music Awards (the most won by a woman), 92 Guinness World Records, 14 MTV Video Music Awards (including three Video of the Year wins\u2014the most by an act), 12 Country Music Association Awards (including the Pinnacle Award), eight Academy of Country Music Awards, and two Brit Awards. As a songwriter, she has been honored by the Nashville Songwriters Association, the Songwriters Hall of Fame, and the National Music Publishers' Association and was the youngest person on Rolling Stone's list of the 100 Greatest Songwriters of All Time in 2015. At the 64th BMI Awards in 2016, Swift was the first woman to be honored with an award named after its recipient. In 2023, Swift became the first act to be named the global best-selling artist of the year by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) thrice.\n\nFrom available data, Swift has amassed over 50 million album sales, 150 million single sales, and 114 million units globally, including 78 billion streams. The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) ranked her as the Global Recording Artist of the Year for a record three times (2014, 2019 and 2022). Swift has the most number-one albums in the United Kingdom and Ireland for a female artist this millennium and earned the highest income for an artist on Chinese digital music platforms\u2014RMB 159,000,000. Swift is the most streamed female act on Spotify, and the only artist to have received more than 200 million streams in one day (228 million streams on October 21, 2022).The most entries and the most simultaneous entries for an artist on the Billboard Global 200, with 94 and 31 songs, respectively, are among her feats. Her Reputation Stadium Tour (2018) is the highest-grossing North American tour ever, and she was the world's highest-grossing female touring act of the 2010s. Beginning with Fearless, all of her studio albums opened with over a million global units.\n Question: Given the passage below, tell me how many Grammy Awards, Emmy Awards, and Billboard Music Awards Taylor Swift has won and how many simultaneous entries she had on the Billboard Global 200 when she had the most simultaneous entries for an artist.", "output": "Taylor Swift won 12 Grammy Awards, one Emmy Awards, 29 Billboard Music Awards, and had 31 songs on the Billboard Global 200 simultaneously, breaking the record for the most simultaneous entries for an artist on the Billboard Global 200."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A member of the Hamilton Rowing Club, Waters began rowing as a 17-year-old. In 1929 he was a member of the Hamilton four that won the national championship. In March of the following year, he participated in a trial race for selection of the New Zealand team to compete at the 1930 British Empire Games in Hamilton, Ontario, but was not initially chosen for the 12-man squad. However, he was included in the final squad selected in late June, and competed in both the men's eight and coxed four at the 1930 Empire Games. He won a gold medal in the coxed four, alongside Mick Brough, Jack Macdonald, Bert Sandos, and Arthur Eastwood (cox), and a silver medal in the eights, finishing three-quarters of a boat length behind the victorious English crew.\n Question: Who won a gold medal alongside Waters in the coxed four?", "output": "Mick Brough, Jack Macdonald, Bert Sandos, and Arthur Eastwood won a gold medal alongside Waters in the coxed four."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Geoffrey Everest Hinton CC FRS FRSC (born 6 December 1947) is a British-Canadian cognitive psychologist and computer scientist, most noted for his work on artificial neural networks. Since 2013, he has divided his time working for Google (Google Brain) and the University of Toronto. In 2017, he co-founded and became the Chief Scientific Advisor of the Vector Institute in Toronto.\n\nWith David Rumelhart and Ronald J. Williams, Hinton was co-author of a highly cited paper published in 1986 that popularised the backpropagation algorithm for training multi-layer neural networks, although they were not the first to propose the approach. Hinton is viewed as a leading figure in the deep learning community. The dramatic image-recognition milestone of the AlexNet designed in collaboration with his students Alex Krizhevsky and Ilya Sutskever for the ImageNet challenge 2012 was a breakthrough in the field of computer vision.\n\nHinton received the 2018 Turing Award, together with Yoshua Bengio and Yann LeCun, for their work on deep learning. They are sometimes referred to as the \"Godfathers of AI\" and \"Godfathers of Deep Learning\", and have continued to give public talks together.\n Question: What is Hinton's citizenship?", "output": "British and Canadian."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Delta Lambda Phi (\u0394\u039b\u03a6) is an international social fraternity for gay, bisexual, transgender and progressive men. It offers a social environment and structure similar to other Greek-model college fraternities. The fraternity was founded on October 15, 1986, by Vernon L. Strickland III in Washington, D.C.: becoming the first national social fraternity for gay, bisexual, and straight progressive men. The full, corporate name of the fraternity is Delta Lambda Phi Social Fraternity, but it is commonly referred to as \"DLP\" by its members. As of 2007, DLP was one of the fastest-growing fraternities in the United States.\n Question: Given this reference text about Delta Lambda Phi, during which years was the DLP fraternity not the fastest growing fraternity in the US?", "output": "Between 1986 and 2007, DLP was available, but not the fastest growing fraternity."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The meaning of life, or the answer to the question: \"What is the meaning of life?\", pertains to the significance of living or existence in general. Many other related questions include: \"Why are we here?\", \"What is life all about?\", or \"What is the purpose of existence?\" There have been many proposed answers to these questions from many different cultural and ideological backgrounds. The search for life's meaning has produced much philosophical, scientific, theological, and metaphysical speculation throughout history. Different people and cultures believe different things for the answer to this question.\n\nThe meaning of life can be derived from philosophical and religious contemplation of, and scientific inquiries about existence, social ties, consciousness, and happiness. Many other issues are also involved, such as symbolic meaning, ontology, value, purpose, ethics, good and evil, free will, the existence of one or multiple gods, conceptions of God, the soul, and the afterlife. Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe, exploring the context and parameters concerning the \"how\" of life. Science also studies and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of morality. An alternative, humanistic approach poses the question, \"What is the meaning of my life?\"\n Question: What is the meaning of life?", "output": "pertains to the significance of living or existence in general"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bush lost the 1992 presidential election to Democrat Bill Clinton following an economic recession, his turnaround on his tax promise, and the decreased emphasis of foreign policy in a post\u2013Cold War political climate.\n Question: Why did George HW Bush lose the presidency?", "output": "George HW Bush lost the presidency due to an economic recession and his turnaround on a tax promise"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 149th Boat Race took place on 6 April 2003. Held annually, the Boat Race is a side-by-side rowing race between crews from the Universities of Oxford (in dark blue) and Cambridge (in light greenish blue) along a 4.2-mile (6.8 km) tidal stretch of the River Thames in south-west London. The lead changed twice during the race, which Oxford won by one foot (30 cm), the smallest margin of victory in the history of the event. The close race has been described as \"epic\", while Olympic gold medallist Steve Redgrave suggested that the race was the \"greatest we will see in our lifetimes\".\n Question: Based on the reference paragraph, when was the 149th Boat Race?", "output": "April 6, 2003"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Coffee is a beverage prepared from roasted coffee beans. Darkly colored, bitter, and slightly acidic, coffee has a stimulating effect on humans, primarily due to its caffeine content. It has the highest sales in the world market for hot drinks.\n\nSeeds of the Coffea plant's fruits are separated to produce unroasted green coffee beans. The beans are roasted and then ground into fine particles that are typically steeped in hot water before being filtered out, producing a cup of coffee. It is usually served hot, although chilled or iced coffee is common. Coffee can be prepared and presented in a variety of ways (e.g., espresso, French press, caff\u00e8 latte, or already-brewed canned coffee). Sugar, sugar substitutes, milk, and cream are often used to mask the bitter taste or enhance the flavor.\n\nThough coffee is now a global commodity, it has a long history tied closely to food traditions around the Red Sea. The earliest credible evidence of coffee drinking in the form of the modern beverage appears in modern-day Yemen from the mid-15th century in Sufi shrines, where coffee seeds were first roasted and brewed in a manner similar to current methods. The Yemenis procured the coffee beans from the Ethiopian Highlands via coastal Somali intermediaries and began cultivation. By the 16th century, the drink had reached the rest of the Middle East and North Africa, later spreading to Europe. In the 20th century, coffee became a global commodity, creating different coffee cultures around the world.\n\nThe two most commonly grown coffee bean types are C. arabica and C. robusta. Coffee plants are cultivated in over 70 countries, primarily in the equatorial regions of the Americas, Southeast Asia, the Indian subcontinent, and Africa. As of 2018, Brazil was the leading grower of coffee beans, producing 35% of the world's total. Green, unroasted coffee is traded as an agricultural commodity. Despite sales of coffee reaching billions of dollars worldwide, farmers producing coffee beans disproportionately live in poverty. Critics of the coffee industry have also pointed to its negative impact on the environment and the clearing of land for coffee-growing and water use\n Question: Based on the reference text about coffee, tell me where coffee plants are primarily grown and the most common bean types.", "output": "Coffee plants are cultivated mainly in the equatorial regions of the Americas, Southeast Asia, the Indian subcontinent, and Africa. The most common types of coffee beans are arabica and robusta."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A column-oriented DBMS or columnar DBMS is a database management system (DBMS) that stores data tables by column rather than by row. Benefits include more efficient access to data when only querying a subset of columns (by eliminating the need to read columns that are not relevant), and more options for data compression. However, they are typically less efficient for inserting new data.\n\nPractical use of a column store versus a row store differs little in the relational DBMS world. Both columnar and row databases can use traditional database query languages like SQL to load data and perform queries. Both row and columnar databases can become the backbone in a system to serve data for common extract, transform, load (ETL) and tools.\n Question: Given this reference text, what are column stores used for?", "output": "A column store database stores data as any other database management system. The data itself is stored sequentially to improve the performance of scans on a subset of individual columns."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Finland has had formal relations with NATO since 1994, when it joined the Partnership for Peace program, and has been a member of the European Union (EU), which largely overlaps with NATO in membership, since 1995.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Republic of Finland becoming a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) what year did it start a formal relations with NATO?", "output": "Finland has started the formal relationship with NATO in 1994 when it joined the Partnership for Peace program. However it wasn't a NATO member up until April 4 2023 when it became an official member of NATO."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pinot noir (French: [pino nwa\u0281]) is a red-wine grape variety of the species Vitis vinifera. The name may also refer to wines created predominantly from pinot noir grapes. The name is derived from the French words for pine and black. The word pine alludes to the grape variety having tightly clustered, pinecone\u2013shaped bunches of fruit.\n\nPinot noir is grown around the world, mostly in cooler climates, and the variety is chiefly associated with the Burgundy region of France. Pinot noir is now used to make red wines around the world, as well as champagne, sparkling white wines such as the Italian Franciacorta, and English sparkling wines. Regions that have gained a reputation for red pinot noir wines include the Willamette Valley of Oregon; the Carneros, Central Coast, Sonoma Coast, and Russian River AVAs of California; the Elgin and Walker Bay wine regions of South Africa; the Mornington Peninsula, Adelaide Hills, Great Southern, Tasmania, and Yarra Valley in Australia; and the Central Otago, Martinborough, and Marlborough wine regions of New Zealand. Pinot noir is the most planted varietal (38%) used in sparkling wine production in Champagne and other wine regions.\n Question: What is Pinot Noir?", "output": "Pinot noir (French: [pino nwa\u0281]) is a red-wine grape variety of the species Vitis vinifera. Pinot noir is grown around the world, mostly in cooler climates, and the variety is chiefly associated with the Burgundy region of France. Pinot noir is now used to make red wines around the world, as well as champagne, sparkling white wines such as the Italian Franciacorta, and English sparkling wines."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A battery storage power station is a type of energy storage power station that uses a group of batteries to store electrical energy. Battery storage is the fastest responding dispatchable source of power on electric grids, and it is used to stabilise those grids, as battery storage can transition from standby to full power in under a second to deal with grid contingencies.\n\nAt full rated power, battery storage power stations are generally designed to output for up to a few hours. Battery storage can be used for short-term peak power and ancillary services, such as providing operating reserve and frequency control to minimize the chance of power outages. They are often installed at, or close to, other active or disused power stations and may share the same grid connection to reduce costs. Since battery storage plants require no deliveries of fuel, are compact compared to generating stations and have no chimneys or large cooling systems, they can be rapidly installed and placed if necessary within urban areas, close to customer load.\n Question: What dispatchable source of power on electric grids are faster than battery storage power stations?", "output": "None. Battery storage is the fastest responding dispatchable source of power on electric grids."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Chengtu, is a sub-provincial city which serves as the capital of the Chinese province of Sichuan. With a population of 20,937,757 inhabitants during the 2020 Chinese census, it is the fourth most populous city in China, and it is the only city apart from the four direct-administered municipalities with a population of over 20 million. It is traditionally the hub in Southwest China.\n\nChengdu is located in central Sichuan. The surrounding Chengdu Plain is known as the \"\"Country of Heaven\"\" (Chinese: \u5929\u5e9c\u4e4b\u56fd; pinyin: Ti\u0101nf\u01d4 zhi Gu\u00f3) and the \"\"Land of Abundance\"\". Its prehistoric settlers included the Sanxingdui culture. The site of Dujiangyan, an ancient irrigation system, is designated as a World Heritage Site. The Jin River flows through the city. Chengdu's culture largely reflects that of its province, Sichuan; in 2011, it was recognized by UNESCO as a city of gastronomy. It is associated with the giant panda, a Chinese national symbol, which inhabits the area of Sichuan; the city is home to the Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding.\"\n Question: Which animal is associated with Chengdu?", "output": "Chengdu is associated with the giant panda, a Chinese national symbol, which inhabits the area of Sichuan; the city is home to the Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hockey is a term used to denote a family of various types of both summer and winter team sports which originated on either an outdoor field, sheet of ice, or dry floor such as in a gymnasium. While these sports vary in specific rules, numbers of players, apparel and, notably, playing surface, they share broad characteristics of two opposing teams using a stick to propel a ball or disk into a goal.\n Question: Given this paragraph about hockey what are different surfaces that hockey is played on?", "output": "Hockey can refer to Ice Hockey, Field Hockey, or Ball Hockey. Each are played on a different surface like a sheet of ice, a gymnasium floor, or an outdoor field."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Of French-Canadian ancestry, Kerouac was raised in a French-speaking home in Lowell, Massachusetts. He \"learned English at age six and spoke with a marked accent into his late teens.\" During World War II, he served in the United States Merchant Marine; he completed his first novel at the time, which was published more than 40 years after his death. His first published book was The Town and the City (1950), and he achieved widespread fame and notoriety with his second, On the Road, in 1957. It made him a beat icon, and he went on to publish 12 more novels and numerous poetry volumes.\n\nKerouac is recognized for his style of spontaneous prose. Thematically, his work covers topics such as his Catholic spirituality, jazz, travel, promiscuity, life in New York City, Buddhism, drugs, and poverty. He became an underground celebrity and, with other Beats, a progenitor of the hippie movement, although he remained antagonistic toward some of its politically radical elements. He has a lasting legacy, greatly influencing many of the cultural icons of the 1960s, including Bob Dylan, the Beatles, Jerry Garcia and the Doors.\n\nIn 1969, at the age of 47, Kerouac died from an abdominal hemorrhage caused by a lifetime of heavy drinking. Since then, his literary prestige has grown, and several previously unseen works have been published.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Jack Kerouac, tell me where he was raised, what was his most famous book, when was that book published, and which movement was he a part of?", "output": "Jack Kerouac raised in Lowell, Massachusetts. He most famous book, On the Road, was published in 1957. He was a member of the Beats."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Oakland population in 2022 is estimated to be 439,483\n Question: How many people live in the city of Oakland in 2022?", "output": "About 450,000 people live in Oakland, Ca during the last census"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The new UCLA campus in 1929 had four buildings: Royce Hall and Haines Hall on the north, and Powell Library and Kinsey Hall (now called Renee And David Kaplan Hall) on the south. The Janss Steps were the original 87-step entrance to the university that lead to the quad of these four buildings. Today, the campus includes 163 buildings across 419 acres (1.7 km2) in the western part of Los Angeles, north of the Westwood shopping district and just south of Sunset Boulevard. In terms of acreage, it is the second-smallest of the ten UC campuses. The campus is approximately 1 mile east of I-405 (the San Diego Freeway).\n\nThe campus is in the residential area of Westwood and bordered by Bel-Air to the north, Beverly Hills to the east, and Brentwood to the west. The campus is informally divided into North Campus and South Campus, which are both on the eastern half of the university's land. North Campus is the original campus core; its buildings are more traditional in appearance and clad in imported Italian brick. North Campus is home to the arts, humanities, social sciences, law, history, and business programs and is centered around ficus and sycamore-lined Dickson Court, also known as the \"Sunken Garden\". South Campus is home to the physical sciences, life sciences, engineering, mathematical sciences, health-related fields, and the UCLA Medical Center. The campus includes sculpture gardens, fountains, museums, and a mix of architectural styles.\n\nAckerman Union, the John Wooden Center, the Arthur Ashe Health and Wellness Center, the Student Activities Center, Kerckhoff Hall, the J.D. Morgan Center, the James West Alumni Center, and Pauley Pavilion stand at the center of the campus, bordering Wilson Plaza. The campus is bisected by Bruin Walk, a heavily traveled pathway from the residential hill to the main campus. At the intersection of Bruin Walk and Westwood Plaza is Bruin Plaza, featuring an outdoor performing arts stage and a bronze statue of the Bruin bear.\n\nDuring the 2028 Summer Olympics, wrestling and judo will be held at Pauley Pavilion. The campus will also be the location of the Olympic Village for the Olympic and Paralympic Games.\n\nIn September 2022 UCLA purchased the Palos Verdes (PV) campus of Marymount California University, which had closed its doors that August, after fifty years of classes; the PV campus joins two other locations, in downtown LA, and in Culver City as satellites of the Westwood campus. A faculty and administration task force will review possible applications of the PV campus for UCLA. The Channel Islands will again be visible from a UCLA campus.\n Question: Based on this passage about UCLA, tell me the difference between North Campus and South Campus and which residential areas border the campus.", "output": "At UCLA, North Campus hosts the arts, humanities, social sciences, law, history, and business programs, while South Campus is home to the physical sciences, life sciences, engineering, mathematical sciences, health-related fields, and the UCLA Medical Center. The UCLA Campus is bordered by Bel Air, Brentwood, and Beverly Hills."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: An artificial general intelligence (AGI) is a hypothetical intelligent agent which can understand or learn any intellectual task that human beings or other animals can. AGI has also been defined alternatively as autonomous systems that surpass human capabilities at the majority of economically valuable work. Developing AGI is a primary goal of some artificial intelligence research and for several AI companies such as OpenAI, DeepMind, and Anthropic, as well as a common topic in science fiction and futures studies.\n\nThe timeline for AGI development remains a subject of ongoing debate among researchers and experts, with some arguing it may be possible in the coming decades, while others maintain it might take much longer or may never be achieved at all. Additionally, there is debate regarding whether modern deep learning systems, such as GPT-4, are an early yet incomplete form of AGI or if new approaches will be required.\n Question: Based on the provided information, when will we achieve AGI?", "output": "The timeline for AGI development remains a subject of ongoing debate among researchers and experts, with some arguing it may be possible in the coming decades, while others maintain it might take much longer or may never be achieved at all."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Shana Woods (born July 7, 1988 in Bellflower, California) is an American track and field athlete. She holds the current national high school record in the multiple event heptathlon, which she set while attending Long Beach Polytechnic High School in Long Beach, California. She has exhibited proficiency in a variety of events. While still a sophomore at Long Beach Poly, she joined her teammates, including senior Shalonda Solomon in setting national high school records in the 4 \u00d7 400 metres relay, 4 \u00d7 200 metres relay and indoor 4 \u00d7 400 metres relay. All those records still stand. The indoor record also counts as the current U.S. Junior record.\n Question: How many national high school records does Shana Woods currently hold based on the paragraph?", "output": "Shana Woods holds 4 national high school records currently"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lee Ji-eun (Korean: \uc774\uc9c0\uc740; born May 16, 1993), also known by her stage name IU (Korean: \uc544\uc774\uc720), is a South Korean singer-songwriter, record producer, and actress. She signed with LOEN Entertainment (now Kakao Entertainment) in 2007 as a trainee and debuted as a singer at the age of fifteen with her first extended play (EP) Lost and Found (2008). Although her follow-up albums, Growing Up and IU...IM, brought mainstream success, it was only after the release of \"Good Day\" (Korean: \uc88b\uc740 \ub0a0), the lead single from her 2010 album Real, that she achieved national stardom. \"Good Day\" went on to spend five consecutive weeks at the top of South Korea's Gaon Digital Chart, and in 2019, it was ranked number one on Billboard's \"100 Greatest K-Pop Songs of the 2010s\" list.\n\nLost and Found is the debut extended play (EP) by South Korean singer-songwriter IU. It was released by LOEN Entertainment on September 23, 2008. IU collaborated with lyricist and producer Choi Gap-won, who had previously produced songs including \"Amnesia\" by Gummy, \"Incurable Disease\" by Wheesung, and \"Toc Toc Toc\" by Lee Hyori. Lee Jong-hoon of Soul-Shop and the singer Mario additionally worked on the title song, \"Lost Child\".\n Question: Given a reference text about a singer, tell me when they debuted, what their first release was, and what their most popular song is.", "output": "The singer Lee Ji-eun, or better known as IU, debuted on September 23, 2008 with her first extended play \"Lost and Found\". Her most popular song is \"Good Day\" from her 2010 album \"Real\" which was ranked number one on Billboard's \"100 Greatest K-Pop Songs of the 2010s\" list."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Papa Chibou (Paul Muni), the elderly caretaker of Mus\u00e9e Pratouchy, a Parisian wax museum, feels a strong kinship with the figures, particularly with that of Napoleon. He spots at the waxworks a romantic young couple, Georges (Russell Gleason), a lawyer, and Helene (Marguerite Churchill), the daughter of a stern judge (Lester Lonergan) who disapproves of his daughter's choice and forbids her to see Georges. Papa Chibou suggests to them that they can still stay in touch, without disobeying her father's directive not to speak with each other, by placing secret personal messages in the pockets of Napoleon's uniform. However, a missing letter and confusion in communication causes Georges to arrive at the mistaken conclusion that Helene has redirected her affections towards a foolish young man (Walter Rogers), who is unworthy of her and excessively preoccupied with his stylish personal appearance and elegant clothing.\n Question: Why did Georges think that Helene redirected her affections towards Walter Rogers?", "output": "A missing letter and confusion in communication caused Georges to arrive at the mistaken conclusion that Helene has redirected her affections towards Walter Rogers (a foolish young man), who is unworthy of her and excessively preoccupied with his stylish personal appearance and elegant clothing."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 2008 Pittsburgh Pirates season was the 127th season of the franchise; the 122nd in the National League. This was their eighth season at PNC Park. It was the first under new president Frank Coonelly, general manager Neal Huntington, and manager John Russell. Unable to improve on their 68\u201394, last place finish during the 2007 season, the Pirates had not had a winning record or made it to the playoffs since 1992, and finished 67\u201395 for their 16th straight losing season. The season was the final of play-by-play announcer Lanny Frattare, whose 33-year tenure as Pirates' broadcaster was the longest in franchise history.\n Question: Given a reference text about the 2008 Pittsburgh Pirates season, what was their record for the season?", "output": "The 2008 Pittsburgh Pirates finished the season with a record of 67-95."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Observer bias is one of the types of detection bias and is defined as any kind of systematic divergence from accurate facts during observation and the recording of data and information in studies. The definition can be further expanded upon to include the systematic difference between what is observed due to variation in observers, and what the true value is.\n\nObserver bias is the tendency of observers to not see what is there, but instead to see what they expect or want to see. This is a common occurrence in the everyday lives of many and is a significant problem that is sometimes encountered in scientific research and studies. Observation is critical to scientific research and activity, and as such, observer bias may be as well. When such biases exist, scientific studies can result in an over- or underestimation of what is true and accurate, which compromises the validity of the findings and results of the study, even if all other designs and procedures in the study were appropriate.\n\nObservational data forms the foundation of a significant body of knowledge. Observation is a method of data collection and falls into the category of qualitative research techniques. There are a number of benefits of observation, including its simplicity as a data collection method and its usefulness for hypotheses. Simultaneously, there are many limitations and disadvantages in the observation process, including the potential lack of reliability, poor validity, and faulty perception. Participants\u2019 observations are widely used in sociological and anthropological studies, while systematic observation is used where researchers need to collect data without participants direct interactions. The most common observation method is naturalistic observation, where subjects are observed in their natural environments with the goal to assess the behaviour in an intervention free and natural setting.\n\nObserver bias is especially probable when the investigator or researcher has vested interests in the outcome of the research or has strong preconceptions. Coupled with ambiguous underlying data and a subjective scoring method, these three factors contribute heavily to the incidence of observer bias.\n\nExamples of cognitive biases include:\n\nAnchoring \u2013 a cognitive bias that causes humans to place too much reliance on the initial pieces of information they are provided with for a topic. This causes a skew in judgement and prevents humans and observers from updating their plans and predictions as appropriate.\nBandwagon effect \u2013 the tendency for people to \u201cjump on the bandwagon\u201d with certain behaviours and attitudes, meaning that they adopt particular ways of doings things based on what others are doing.\nBias blind spot \u2013 the tendency for people to recognize the impact of bias on others and their judgements, while simultaneously failing to acknowledge and recognize the impact that their own biases have on their own judgement.\nConfirmation bias \u2013 the tendency for people to look for, interpret, and recall information in such a way that their preconceived beliefs and values are affirmed.\nGuilt and innocence by association bias \u2013 the tendency for people to hold an assumption that individuals within a group share similar characteristics and behaviours, including those that would hail them as innocent or guilty.\nHalo effect \u2013 the tendency for the positive impressions and beliefs in one area around a person, brand, company, product or the like to influence an observers opinions or feelings in other unrelated areas.\nFraming effect \u2013 the tendency for people to form conclusions and opinions based on whether the pertinent relevant is provided to them with positive or negative connotations.\nRecency effect \u2013 the tendency for more recent pieces of information, ideas, or arguments to be remembered more clearly than those that preceded.\n Question: What is observer bias", "output": "Observer bias is one of the types of detection bias and is defined as any kind of systematic divergence from accurate facts during observation and the recording of data and information in studies. The definition can be further expanded upon to include the systematic difference between what is observed due to variation in observers, and what the true value is.\n\nObserver bias is the tendency of observers to not see what is there, but instead to see what they expect or want to see. This is a common occurrence in the everyday lives of many and is a significant problem that is sometimes encountered in scientific research and studies. Observation is critical to scientific research and activity, and as such, observer bias may be as well. When such biases exist, scientific studies can result in an over- or underestimation of what is true and accurate, which compromises the validity of the findings and results of the study, even if all other designs and procedures in the study were appropriate.\n\nObservational data forms the foundation of a significant body of knowledge. Observation is a method of data collection and falls into the category of qualitative research techniques. There are a number of benefits of observation, including its simplicity as a data collection method and its usefulness for hypotheses. Simultaneously, there are many limitations and disadvantages in the observation process, including the potential lack of reliability, poor validity, and faulty perception. Participants\u2019 observations are widely used in sociological and anthropological studies, while systematic observation is used where researchers need to collect data without participants direct interactions. The most common observation method is naturalistic observation, where subjects are observed in their natural environments with the goal to assess the behaviour in an intervention free and natural setting.\n\nObserver bias is especially probable when the investigator or researcher has vested interests in the outcome of the research or has strong preconceptions. Coupled with ambiguous underlying data and a subjective scoring method, these three factors contribute heavily to the incidence of observer bias.\n\nExamples of cognitive biases include:\n\nAnchoring \u2013 a cognitive bias that causes humans to place too much reliance on the initial pieces of information they are provided with for a topic. This causes a skew in judgement and prevents humans and observers from updating their plans and predictions as appropriate.\n\nBandwagon effect \u2013 the tendency for people to \u201cjump on the bandwagon\u201d with certain behaviours and attitudes, meaning that they adopt particular ways of doings things based on what others are doing.\n\nBias blind spot \u2013 the tendency for people to recognize the impact of bias on others and their judgements, while simultaneously failing to acknowledge and recognize the impact that their own biases have on their own judgement.\n\nConfirmation bias \u2013 the tendency for people to look for, interpret, and recall information in such a way that their preconceived beliefs and values are affirmed.\n\nGuilt and innocence by association bias \u2013 the tendency for people to hold an assumption that individuals within a group share similar characteristics and behaviours, including those that would hail them as innocent or guilty.\n\nHalo effect \u2013 the tendency for the positive impressions and beliefs in one area around a person, brand, company, product or the like to influence an observers opinions or feelings in other unrelated areas.\n\nFraming effect \u2013 the tendency for people to form conclusions and opinions based on whether the pertinent relevant is provided to them with positive or negative connotations.\n\nRecency effect \u2013 the tendency for more recent pieces of information, ideas, or arguments to be remembered more clearly than those that preceded."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the late 1920s after the construction of a road from El Arish, the area became a popular camping place. It was known as Mission Beach due to the mistaken belief that the Hull River Aboriginal Settlement previously located in the region was a religious mission. Mission Beach developed into a town during the 1940s and 50s with the Mission Beach Post Office opening on 15 December 1949.\n Question: When did the Post Office in Mission Beach first open?", "output": "Mission Beach Post Office opened on 15 December 1949."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Porsche 911 (pronounced Nine Eleven or in German: Neunelfer) is a two-door 2+2 high performance rear-engined sports car introduced in September 1964 by Porsche AG of Stuttgart, Germany. It has a rear-mounted flat-six engine and originally a torsion bar suspension. The car has been continuously enhanced through the years but the basic concept has remained unchanged. The engines were air-cooled until the introduction of the 996 series in 1998.\n Question: When did Porsche stop producing air-cooled engines in the 911?", "output": "Porsche stopped producing air-cooled engines in the 911 in 1998 with the 996 series."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1899 the Great Central Railway completed its main line to London through the southernmost part of the parish. The nearest station was Finmere for Buckingham, which was just over the Oxfordshire county boundary on the main road between Buckingham and Bicester and only 3\u20444 mile (1.2 km) from Barton Hartshorn. The station was 5 miles (8 km) from Buckingham, more than 1 mile (1.6 km) from Finmere and was actually in Shelswell parish next to the village of Newton Purcell. In about 1922 the Great Central renamed the station Finmere. British Railways closed the station in 1963 and the line in 1966.\n Question: Of the cities listed, which was furthest from the station?", "output": "Buckingham city was the furthest, 5 miles from the station."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Macroglossum insipida, the hermit hummingbird hawkmoth, is a moth of the family Sphingidae. It was described by Arthur Gardiner Butler in 1875.\n Question: Was the hermit hummingbird hawkmoth described in the 20th or 21st century?", "output": "Neither.  It was first described by Arthur Gardiner Butler in 1875, which is in the 19th century."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The bulk of dried spaghetti is produced in factories using auger extruders. While essentially simple, the process requires attention to detail to ensure that the mixing and kneading of the ingredients produces a homogeneous mix, without air bubbles. The forming dies have to be water cooled to prevent spoiling of the pasta by overheating. Drying of the newly formed spaghetti has to be carefully controlled to prevent strands sticking together, and to leave it with sufficient moisture so that it is not too brittle. Packaging for protection and display has developed from paper wrapping to plastic bags and boxes.\n Question: Given a reference text about dried spaghetti production, what is required to produce spaghetti without errors?", "output": "Spaghetti production is straight-forward, but requires the maker to ensure the mixture is homogenous and without air bubbles before starting the drying process. The drying process itself needs to be monitored to ensure that the individual spaghetti strands do not stick together but also do not dry out so much that they become brittle"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: They hold the highest number of FA Cup trophies, with 14. The club is one of only six clubs to have won the FA Cup twice in succession, in 2002 and 2003, and 2014 and 2015. Arsenal have achieved three League and FA Cup \"Doubles\" (in 1971, 1998 and 2002), a feat only previously achieved by Manchester United (in 1994, 1996 and 1999). They were the first side in English football to complete the FA Cup and League Cup double, in 1993. Arsenal were also the first London club to reach the final of the UEFA Champions League, in 2006, losing the final 2\u20131 to Barcelona.\n Question: Which English football club has won the most FA Cup trophies?", "output": "Arsenal - 14"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Beavers (genus Castor) are large, semiaquatic rodents of the Northern Hemisphere. There are two existing species: the North American beaver (Castor canadensis) and the Eurasian beaver (C. fiber). Beavers are the second-largest living rodents, after capybaras, weighing up to 30 kilograms (66 lb). Beavers have stout bodies with large heads, long chisel-like incisors, brown or gray fur, hand-like front feet, webbed back feet, and tails that are flat and scaly. The two species differ in skull and tail shape and fur color. Beavers can be found in a number of freshwater habitats, such as rivers, streams, lakes and ponds. They are herbivorous, consuming tree bark, aquatic plants, grasses and sedges.\n Question: Given this paragraph are Beavers the largest living rodents?", "output": "No, Beavers are the second-largest living rodents, second to Capybaras."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sweet Tree Holdings is a Vermont, United States, company that produces maple products from a sugarbush and processing facility in Island Pond.\n Question: What type of products does this company produce?", "output": "maple products"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Any Day Now EP is Elbow's third release. This EP was released through Elbow's first record label Ugly Man Records, as well as their second record label V2 Records. Both EPs each have a different track listing.\n\nThe song \"George Lassoes the Moon\" on the Ugly Man Records version of the EP differs from the version on The Noisebox EP. Not only is it a minute shorter, but it also is musically more produced than the rough first version. \"Wurzel\" is an instrumental song.\n Question: Tell me about the album The Any Day Now", "output": "The Any Day Now EP is Elbow's third release. This EP was released through Elbow's first record label Ugly Man Records, as well as their second record label V2 Records. Both EPs each have a different track listing.\n\nThe song \"George Lassoes the Moon\" on the Ugly Man Records version of the EP differs from the version on The Noisebox EP. Not only is it a minute shorter, but it also is musically more produced than the rough first version. \"Wurzel\" is an instrumental song."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Boston College (BC) is a private Jesuit research university in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts. Founded in 1863, the university has more than 9,300 full-time undergraduates and nearly 5,000 graduate students. Although Boston College is classified as an R1 research university, it still uses the word \"college\" in its name to reflect its historical position as a small liberal arts college. Its main campus is a historic district and features some of the earliest examples of collegiate gothic architecture in North America. In accordance with its Jesuit heritage, the university offers a liberal arts curriculum with a distinct emphasis on formative education and service to others.\n\nUndergraduate admission is highly selective. The university offers bachelor's degrees, master's degrees, and doctoral degrees through its eight colleges and schools: Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences, Carroll School of Management, Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Connell School of Nursing, Graduate School of Social Work, Boston College Law School, Boston College School of Theology and Ministry, Woods College of Advancing Studies.\n\nBoston College athletic teams are the Eagles. Their colors are maroon and gold and their mascot is Baldwin the Eagle. The Eagles compete in NCAA Division I as members of the Atlantic Coast Conference in all sports offered by the ACC. The men's and women's ice hockey teams compete in Hockey East. Boston College's men's ice hockey team has won five national championships.\n\nAlumni and affiliates of the university include governors, ambassadors, members of Congress, scholars, writers, medical researchers, Hollywood actors, and professional athletes. Boston College has graduated 3 Rhodes, 22 Truman, and more than 171 Fulbright scholars. Other notable alumni include a U.S. Speaker of the House, a U.S. Secretary of State, and chief executives of Fortune 500 companies.\n Question: What is the best private Jesuit research university in Boston ?", "output": "Boston College is the best Jesuit private university in Boston."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Yorkshire Terrier is a British breed of toy dog of terrier type. It is among the smallest of the terriers and indeed of all dog breeds, with a weight of no more than 3.2 kg. It originated in the nineteenth century in the English county of Yorkshire, for which it is named. Their coats are typically tan on the head with a dark steel-grey body, but they can come in a variety of colors.\n\nIt is a playful and energetic dog, usually kept as a companion dog. It has contributed to the development of other breeds including the Silky Terrier, and also to cross-breeds such as the Yorkipoo.\n Question: Given this reference on Yorkshire Terriers, tell me where they originate from, and what are their typical size and color.", "output": "Yorkshire Terrier originated from English county of Yorkshire, it has a small size with weight of no more than 3.2 kg. They have a variety of colors but typically their coats are tan on the head and dark steel-grey on the body."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Laika (/\u02c8la\u026ak\u0259/ LY-k\u0259; Russian: \u041b\u0430\u0439\u043a\u0430, IPA: [\u02c8lajk\u0259]; c.\u20091954 \u2013 3 November 1957) was a Soviet space dog who was one of the first animals in space and the first to orbit the Earth. A stray mongrel from the streets of Moscow, she flew aboard the Sputnik 2 spacecraft, launched into low orbit on 3 November 1957. As the technology to de-orbit had not yet been developed, Laika's survival was never expected. She died of overheating hours into the flight, on the craft's fourth orbit.\n\nLittle was known about the effects of spaceflight on living creatures at the time of Laika's mission, and animal flights were viewed by engineers as a necessary precursor to human missions. The experiment, which monitored Laika's vital signs, aimed to prove that a living organism could survive being launched into orbit and continue to function under conditions of weakened gravity and increased radiation, providing scientists with some of the first data on the biological effects of spaceflight.\n\nLaika died within hours from overheating, possibly caused by a failure of the central R\u20117 sustainer to separate from the payload. The true cause and time of her death were not made public until 2002; instead, it was widely reported that she died when her oxygen ran out on day six or, as the Soviet government initially claimed, she was euthanised prior to oxygen depletion. In 2008, a small monument to Laika depicting her standing atop a rocket was unveiled near the military research facility in Moscow that prepared her flight. She also appears on the Monument to the Conquerors of Space in Moscow.\n Question: Who is Laika and why is she famous?", "output": "Laika was one of the first animals in space and the first one to orbit the space. She was sent into the outer space by the Soviet Union. She died of overheating hours into the flight while the spacecraft carrying her was in the orbit."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Estimates for the Ethiopian forces under Menelik range from a low of 73,000 to a high of over 100,000 outnumbering the Italians by an estimated five times. The forces were divided among Emperor Menelik, Empress Taytu Betul, Ras Wale Betul, Ras Mengesha Atikem, Ras Mengesha Yohannes, Ras Alula Engida (Abba Nega), Ras Mikael of Wollo, Ras Makonnen Wolde Mikael,Fitawrari Habte Giyorgis, Fitawrari[nb 3] Gebeyyehu, and Negus[nb 4] Tekle Haymanot Tessemma. In addition, the armies were followed by a similar number of camp followers who supplied the army, as had been done for centuries. Most of the army consisted of riflemen, a significant percentage of whom were in Menelik's reserve; however, there were also a significant number of cavalry and infantry only armed with lances (those with lances were referred to as \"lancer servants\"). The Kuban Cossack army officer N. S. Leontiev who visited Ethiopia in 1895, according to some sources, led a small team of Russian advisers and volunteers. Other sources assert that Leontiev did not in fact participate in the battle, rather he visited Ethiopia first unofficially in January 1895, and then officially as a representative of Russia in August 1895, but then left later that year, returning only after the Battle of Adwa\n Question: Give this paragraph abount Battle of Adwa between Ethiopia and Italy, who were the commanders on Ethiopian side.", "output": "Emperor Menelik, Empress Taytu, Ras Makonnen, Ras Wale Betul, Tekle Haymanot Tessemma, Ras Mengesha Yohannes, Ras Mikael were the top commanders and leaders."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hackpad was a web-based collaborative real-time text editor forked from Etherpad.\n\nIt was used as the company wikis by multiple prominent startups of the 2010s, such as Airbnb, Stripe, and Upworthy.\n\nIn April 2014, Hackpad was acquired by Dropbox. In April 2015, it was announced that Hackpad would be released as open source and source code was published on GitHub in August 2015, under the Apache license 2.0. On April 25, 2017, Hackpad announced that it is to shut down on July 19, 2017, permanently migrating to Dropbox Paper.\n Question: Given a reference text about Hackpad, what company acquired it?", "output": "Hackpad was acquired by Dropbox in April 2014."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Swedish citizenship can be acquired by naturalisation, also known as citizenship by application. A foreigner may be granted Swedish citizenship upon meeting certain requirements. Person should be able to prove identity, 18 years of age or older, has a permanent residence permit or\nhas a right of residence or residence card (applies to EU citizens or close relatives of EU citizens), meets the requirements for habitual residence and has maintained good conduct while in Sweden.\n Question: To acquire Swedish citizenship by naturalisation what should be the minimum age of the applicant and what documents are required.", "output": "Minimum age should be 18 years and applicant should have permanent residence permit or right of residence."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Postmodernism is an intellectual stance or mode of discourse characterized by skepticism toward the \"grand narratives\" of modernism; rejection of epistemic certainty or the stability of meaning; and sensitivity to the role of ideology in maintaining political power. Claims to objectivity are dismissed as na\u00efve realism, with attention drawn to the conditional nature of knowledge claims within particular historical, political, and cultural discourses. The postmodern outlook is characterized by self-referentiality, epistemological relativism, moral relativism, pluralism, irony, irreverence, and eclecticism; it rejects the \"universal validity\" of binary oppositions, stable identity, hierarchy, and categorization\n\nInitially emerging from a mode of literary criticism, postmodernism developed in the mid-twentieth century as a rejection of modernism, and has been observed across many disciplines. Postmodernism is associated with the disciplines deconstruction and post-structuralism. Various authors have criticized postmodernism as promoting obscurantism, as abandoning Enlightenment rationalism and scientific rigor, and as adding nothing to analytical or empirical knowledge\n Question: What is postmodernism?", "output": "Postmodernism is a philosophical position that questions the certainty and immutability of human knowledge. It emerges in opposition to the main tenets of modernism and rejects claims of objective universal truths that are not bound and shaped by the social, historical, political and cultural context in which they arise. Postmodernist attitudes are characterized by moral relativism, a view where opposite moral precepts and world views are equally valid regardless of their consequences or scientific underpinning. This has led to criticism from thinkers that subscribe to rationalism and the notion that objective truths can be derived from scientific rigor."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: WFSD-LP (107.9 FM) is a low-power FM radio station broadcasting a Christian inspirational format. Licensed to Tallahassee, Florida, United States, the station is currently owned by Tallahassee First Seventh-day Adventist Church, affiliated with LifeTalk Radio.\n Question: What city is WFSD Radio licensed to?", "output": "WFSD Radio is licensed to Tallahassee, Florida, United States"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Ghost Town\" is a song recorded by American singer Adam Lambert for his third studio album, The Original High (2015). It was released as the album's lead single on April 21, 2015. The single garnered considerable commercial and critical success, becoming somewhat of a sleeper hit in select countries and receiving a substantial amount of radio play in the US.\n Question: Who recorded the song Ghost Town", "output": "Ghost Town is a song recorded by American singer Adam Lambert for his third studio album, The Original High (2015). It was released as the album's lead single on April 21, 2015. The single garnered considerable commercial and critical success, becoming somewhat of a sleeper hit in select countries and receiving a substantial amount of radio play in the US."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Solar System is the gravitationally bound system of the Sun and the objects that orbit it. It formed 4.6 billion years ago from the gravitational collapse of a giant interstellar molecular cloud. The vast majority (99.86%) of the system's mass is in the Sun, with most of the remaining mass contained in the planet Jupiter. The planetary system around the Sun contains eight planets. The four inner system planets\u2014Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars\u2014are terrestrial planets, being composed primarily of rock and metal. The four giant planets of the outer system are substantially larger and more massive than the terrestrials. The two largest, Jupiter and Saturn, are gas giants, being composed mainly of hydrogen and helium; the next two, Uranus and Neptune, are ice giants, being composed mostly of volatile substances with relatively high melting points compared with hydrogen and helium, such as water, ammonia, and methane. All eight planets have nearly circular orbits that lie near the plane of Earth's orbit, called the ecliptic.\n\nThere are an unknown number of smaller dwarf planets and innumerable small Solar System bodies orbiting the Sun. Six of the major planets, the six largest possible dwarf planets, and many of the smaller bodies are orbited by natural satellites, commonly called \"moons\" after Earth's Moon. Two natural satellites, Jupiter's moon Ganymede and Saturn's moon Titan, are larger than Mercury, the smallest terrestrial planet, though less massive, and Jupiter's moon Callisto is nearly as large. Each of the giant planets and some smaller bodies are encircled by planetary rings of ice, dust and moonlets. The asteroid belt, which lies between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, contains objects composed of rock, metal and ice. Beyond Neptune's orbit lie the Kuiper belt and scattered disc, which are populations of objects composed mostly of ice and rock.\n Question: What is the solar system?", "output": "The word solar means \"pertaining to the Sun\", which is derived from the Latin word sol, meaning Sun. The Sun is the dominant gravitational member of the Solar System, and its planetary system is maintained in a relatively stable, slowly evolving state by following isolated, gravitationally bound orbits around the Sun"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Augusta Ada King, Countess of Lovelace (n\u00e9e Byron; 10 December 1815 \u2013 27 November 1852) was an English mathematician and writer, chiefly known for her work on Charles Babbage's proposed mechanical general-purpose computer, the Analytical Engine. She was the first to recognise that the machine had applications beyond pure calculation, and to have published the first algorithm intended to be carried out by such a machine. As a result, she is often regarded as the first computer programmer\n Question: Who was the first computer programmer?", "output": "Augusta Ada King, Countess of Lovelace (n\u00e9e Byron; 10 December 1815 \u2013 27 November 1852) is often regarded as the first computer programmer for her work on the Analytical Engine with Charles Babbage."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Silvio Micali (born October 13, 1954) is an Italian computer scientist, professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the founder of Algorand, a proof-of-stake blockchain cryptocurrency protocol. Micali's research at the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory centers on cryptography and information security.\n\nIn 2012, he received the Turing Award for his work in cryptography along with Shafi Goldwasser for their work on zero-knowledge proofs.\n Question: Who is Silvio Micali?", "output": "Silvio Micali is a cryptography professor at MIT. He received a Turing award in 2012 along with Shafi Goldwasser for their work on zero-knowledge proofs. Micali also founded Algorand, which is a a proof-of-stake blockchain cryptocurrency protocol and company."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A low-flow fixture is a water saving plumbing fixture designed to achieve water savings by having a lower flow rate of water or a smaller quantity per flush. Some of these low-flow fixtures are faucets, showerheads, and toilets. In the United States a maximum water usage of conventional plumbing fixtures was federally mandated by the Energy policy act of 1992. Low-flow fixtures are designed to save water over conventional fixtures by having a lower flow rate while still maintaining satisfactory performance. The Environmental protection agency (EPA) WaterSense program has requirements for plumbing fixtures to achieve their definition for water saving low-flow.\n Question: When did the maximum rate of water usage begin to be mandated?", "output": "1992"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As of 2017, Mexico was the 6th most visited country in the world and had the 15th highest income from tourism in the world which is also the highest in Latin America. The vast majority of tourists come to Mexico from the United States and Canada followed by Europe and Asia. A smaller number also come from other Latin American countries. In the 2017 Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Report, Mexico was ranked 22nd in the world, which was 3rd in the Americas.\n Question: Given this question about tourism, what country is the 6th most visited country?", "output": "Mexico"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: MS Dhoni, is a former Indian cricketer and captain of the Indian national team in limited-overs formats from 2007 to 2017 and in Test cricket from 2008 to 2014, who plays as a Wicket-keeper-Batsman. He is also the current captain of Chennai Super Kings in the Indian Premier League. Under his captaincy, India won the 2007 ICC World Twenty20, the 2011 Cricket World Cup, and the 2013 ICC Champions Trophy, the most by any captain. He also led India to victory in the 2010 and 2016 Asia Cup. Additionally, under his leadership, India won the 2010 and 2011 ICC Test Mace and 2013 ICC ODI Championship. Dhoni is a right-handed wicket-keeper batsman known for his calm captaincy and his ability to finish matches in tight situations. He has scored 17,266 runs in International Cricket (including 10,000 plus runs in ODI Internationals) and is considered one of the best finishers in the game, as well as one of the greatest wicket-keepers and captains in the history of cricket.\n Question: From the below text about MS Dhoni, tell me what they were most famous for?", "output": "MS Dhoni is a former cricketer and captain of the Indian national team. He is most famously known for leading India to victory in 2007 ICC World Twenty20, the 2011 Cricket World Cup and the 2013 ICC Champions Trophy. He is also known for his calm captaincy and considered as one of the best finishers and greatest wicket-keepers in the history of the game."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A glass ceiling is a metaphor usually applied to women, used to represent an invisible barrier that prevents a given demographic from rising beyond a certain level in a hierarchy. No matter how invisible the glass ceiling is expressed, it is actually a difficult obstacle to overcome. The metaphor was first used by feminists in reference to barriers in the careers of high-achieving women. It was coined by Marilyn Loden during a speech in 1978. In the United States, the concept is sometimes extended to refer to racial inequality in the United States. Minority women in white-majority countries often find the most difficulty in \"breaking the glass ceiling\" because they lie at the intersection of two historically marginalized groups: women and people of color. East Asian and East Asian American news outlets have coined the term \"bamboo ceiling\" to refer to the obstacles that all East Asian Americans face in advancing their careers. Similarly, a multitude of barriers that refugees and asylum seekers face in their search for meaningful employment is referred to as canvas ceiling.\n Question: Why is the glass ceiling better for minority women?", "output": "Actually, the glass ceiling is considered worse for minority women, not better. This is because they have to face both racial and gender inequalities."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Taekwondo, Tae Kwon Do or Taekwon-Do is a Korean form of martial arts involving punching and kicking techniques, with emphasis on head-height kicks, spinning jump kicks, and fast kicking techniques. The literal translation for tae kwon do is \"kicking\", \"punching\", and \"the art or way of\". They are a kind of martial arts in which one attacks or defends with hands and feet anytime or anywhere, with occasional use of weapons. The physical training undertaken in Taekwondo is purposeful and fosters strength of mind through mental armament.\n Question: What does kwon mean in taekwondo?", "output": "'kwon' in Korean means punching or striking with the hand"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Twitch is an American video live streaming service that focuses on video game live streaming, including broadcasts of esports competitions, in addition to offering music broadcasts, creative content, and \"in real life\" streams. Twitch is operated by Twitch Interactive, a subsidiary of Amazon.com, Inc. It was introduced in June 2011 as a spin-off of the general-interest streaming platform Justin.tv. Content on the site can be viewed either live or via video on demand. The games shown on Twitch's current homepage are listed according to audience preference and include genres such as real-time strategy games (RTS), fighting games, racing games, and first-person shooters.\n\nThe popularity of Twitch eclipsed that of its general-interest counterpart. In October 2013, the website had 45 million unique viewers, and by February 2014, it was considered the fourth-largest source of peak Internet traffic in the United States. At the same time, Justin.tv's parent company was re-branded as Twitch Interactive to represent the shift in focus \u2013 Justin.tv was shut down in August 2014. That month, the service was acquired by Amazon for US$970 million, which later led to the introduction of synergies with the company's subscription service Amazon Prime. Twitch acquired Curse LLC in 2016, an operator of online video gaming communities and introduced means to purchase games through links on streams along with a program allowing streamers to receive commissions on the sales of games that they play.\n\nBy 2015, Twitch had more than 100 million viewers per month. In 2017, Twitch remained the leading live streaming video service for video games in the US, and had an advantage over YouTube Gaming, which shut down its standalone app in May 2019. As of February 2020, it had 3 million broadcasters monthly and 15 million daily active users, with 1.4 million average concurrent users. As of May 2018, Twitch had over 27,000 partner channels.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Twitch, during what year did twitch have more than 100 million viewers per month?", "output": "Twitch surpassed 100 million viewers per month in the year 2015."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Old French (franceis, fran\u00e7ois, romanz; Modern French: ancien fran\u00e7ais) was the language spoken in most of the northern half of France from approximately the 8th to the 14th centuries. Rather than a unified language, Old French was a linkage of Romance dialects, mutually intelligible yet diverse, spoken in the northern half of France. These dialects came to be collectively known as the langue d'o\u00efl, contrasting with the langue d'oc in the south of France. The mid-14th century witnessed the emergence of Middle French, the language of the French Renaissance in the \u00cele de France region; this dialect was a predecessor to Modern French. Other dialects of Old French evolved themselves into modern forms (Poitevin-Saintongeais, Gallo, Norman, Picard, Walloon, etc.), each with its own linguistic features and history.\n Question: Where was Old French language spoken?", "output": "Northern half of France in the 8th to 14th centuries."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Joseph Charlton (born April 7, 1997) is an American football punter who is a free agent. He played college football at South Carolina.\n\nCollege career\nCharlton was a member of the South Carolina Gamecocks for five seasons, redshirting as a true freshman. He was named South Carolina's starting punter going into his redshirt sophomore year. As a redshirt junior, Charlton set a new school record by averaging 44.8 yards per punt and was named second-team All-Southeastern Conference (SEC) by the league's coaches. He broke his own record in his senior season by averaging 47.7 yards per punt and was named second-team All-SEC and was an honorable mention All-American by Pro Football Focus. Charlton finished his collegiate career averaging 45.5 yards per punt, a school record.\n Question: Given a reference text about Joseph Charlton, what college football team did he play for?", "output": "Joseph Charlton played for the South Carolina Gamecocks."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The euro area, commonly called eurozone (EZ), is a currency union of 20 member states of the European Union (EU) that have adopted the euro (\u20ac) as their primary currency and sole legal tender, and have thus fully implemented EMU policies.\n Question: How many countries in Europe do have the Euro as monetary currency?", "output": "20"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 is a 2009 first-person shooter game developed by Infinity Ward and published by Activision. It is the sixth installment in the Call of Duty series and the direct sequel to Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. It was released worldwide on November 10, 2009, for Microsoft Windows, the PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360. A separate version for the Nintendo DS, titled Modern Warfare: Mobilized, was also released on the same day. A version for macOS was developed by Aspyr and released in May 2014, and the Xbox 360 version was made backward compatible for the Xbox One in 2018.\n\nThe game's campaign follows Task Force 141, a multi-national special forces unit commanded by Captain Soap MacTavish as they hunt Vladimir Makarov, leader of the Russian Ultranationalist party, and U.S. Army Rangers from 1st Battalion/75th Ranger Regiment who are defending the Washington, D.C. area from a Russian invasion. The game's main playable characters are Sergeant Gary \"Roach\" Sanderson, of the 141, and Private James Ramirez, of the Army Rangers, with Captain MacTavish becoming playable later in the campaign. An expansive multiplayer mode is featured in the game, with several new features and modes that were not seen in its predecessor.\n\nDevelopment for the game began in 2008, when it was still known as Call of Duty 6. It uses the IW 4.0 engine, an improved version of Call of Duty 4's IW 3.0. Infinity Ward was inspired by real-life conflicts when developing the campaign mode. They initially tested the multiplayer mode by playing an in-house beta version of the game. Modern Warfare 2 was officially announced in February 2009. Teasing of the game began in March, with short trailers being released for the game and, eventually, a full reveal trailer. The multiplayer mode was revealed shortly after. Two downloadable content packs were released for it post-release, each containing five new multiplayer maps, with some being remastered maps from Call of Duty 4.\n\nModern Warfare 2 received universal acclaim, with praise for its campaign, multiplayer, and amount of content, although it received some criticism for its short length and a lack of innovation. Within 24 hours of release, the game sold approximately 4.7 million copies in North America and the United Kingdom. As of 2013, the game had sold 22.7 million copies. In addition to its release, a comic book series based on character Simon \"Ghost\" Riley was also produced, titled Modern Warfare 2: Ghost. Despite the game's success, it was subject to some controversies, with one surrounding a playable level that had the player carry out a terror attack on an airport. A sequel, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, was released in 2011 and finishes the original Modern Warfare storyline. A remaster of the game's campaign, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 Campaign Remastered, was released in March 2020 on the PlayStation 4 and on Microsoft Windows and Xbox One in April 2020.\n Question: Given this text, summarize the major events in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 game development and release.", "output": "2008: Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 development began\nFeb. 2009: officially announced\nMarch 2009: game testing bagan\nNov. 10, 2009: released worldwide for Microsoft Windows, the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360.\n2014: released for macOS\n2018: released for Xbox One\nMarch 2020: a remastered version is released on the PlayStation 4\nApril 2020: a remastered version is released on Microsoft WIndows and Xbox One"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Lockheed Martin F-22 Raptor is an American single-seat, twin-engine, all-weather stealth tactical fighter aircraft developed for the United States Air Force (USAF). As the result of the USAF's Advanced Tactical Fighter (ATF) program, the aircraft was designed as an air superiority fighter, but also has ground attack, electronic warfare, and signals intelligence capabilities. The prime contractor, Lockheed Martin, built most of the F-22's airframe and weapons systems and conducted final assembly, while Boeing provided the wings, aft fuselage, avionics integration, and training systems.\n\nThe aircraft first flew in 1997 and was variously designated F-22 and F/A-22 before it formally entered service in December 2005 as the F-22A. Although the USAF had originally planned to buy a total of 750 ATFs, the program was cut to 187 operational aircraft in 2009 due to high costs, a lack of air-to-air missions at the time of production, and the development of the more affordable and versatile F-35.[N 1] The last F-22 was delivered in 2012.\n\nWhile it had a protracted development and initial operational difficulties, the F-22 has become a critical component of the USAF's tactical airpower. The fighter's combination of stealth, aerodynamic performance, and mission systems enabled a leap in air combat capabilities and set the benchmark for its generation. The F-22 is expected to serve into the 2030s and eventually be succeeded by the USAF's Next Generation Air Dominance (NGAD) manned fighter component.\n Question: Which company built the F-22 Raptor?", "output": "The F-22 Raptor was built primarily by Lockheed Martin, but several significant components were built by Boeing including the wings, aft fuselage, avionics integration, and training systems."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Frank Lloyd Wright (June 8, 1867 \u2013 April 9, 1959) was an American architect, designer, writer, and educator.\n\nHe designed more than 1,000 structures over a creative period of 70 years. Wright played a key role in the architectural movements of the twentieth century, influencing architects worldwide through his works and hundreds of apprentices in his Taliesin Fellowship. Wright believed in designing in harmony with humanity and the environment, a philosophy he called organic architecture. This philosophy was exemplified in Fallingwater (1935), which has been called \"the best all-time work of American architecture\".\n\nWright was the pioneer of what came to be called the Prairie School movement of architecture and also developed the concept of the Usonian home in Broadacre City, his vision for urban planning in the United States. He also designed original and innovative offices, churches, schools, skyscrapers, hotels, museums, and other commercial projects. Wright-designed interior elements (including leaded glass windows, floors, furniture and even tableware) were integrated into these structures. He wrote several books and numerous articles and was a popular lecturer in the United States and in Europe. Wright was recognized in 1991 by the American Institute of Architects as \"the greatest American architect of all time\". In 2019, a selection of his work became a listed World Heritage Site as The 20th-Century Architecture of Frank Lloyd Wright.\n\nRaised in rural Wisconsin, Wright studied civil engineering at the University of Wisconsin and then apprenticed in Chicago, briefly with Joseph Lyman Silsbee, and then with Louis Sullivan at Adler & Sullivan. Wright opened his own successful Chicago practice in 1893 and established a studio in his Oak Park, Illinois home in 1898. His fame increased and his personal life sometimes made headlines: leaving his first wife Catherine Tobin for Mamah Cheney in 1909; the murder of Mamah and her children and others at his Taliesin estate by a staff member in 1914; his tempestuous marriage with second wife Miriam Noel (m. 1923\u20131927); and his courtship and marriage with Olgivanna Lazovi\u0107 (m. 1928\u20131959).\n Question: Who is Frank Lloyd Wright, and why is he famous?", "output": "Frank Lloyd Wright continues to be an inspiration in architecture around the United States and many of his originally designed buildings and structures stand today."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Cambridge University Boat Club (CUBC) is the rowing club of the University of Cambridge, England. The club was founded in 1828 and has been located at the Goldie Boathouse on the River Cam, Cambridge since 1882. Nowadays, training primarily takes place on the River Great Ouse at Ely.\n Question: Given the reference paragraph, when was the CUBC formed?", "output": "The Cambridge University Boat Club (CUBC)  was founded in 1828"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Kumanichi Road Race (Japanese: \u718a\u672c30K) is an annual road running competition over 30 kilometres which is typically held in February in Kumamoto, Japan. It was first held in 1957 as a men-only competition. A women's race was introduced in 2006. The race is one of the world's most prominent over the uncommon 30K distance. A total of eight Association of Road Racing Statisticians-recognised men's world records have been set at the competition, including the current world record.\n\nThe course records are held by Takayuki Matsumiya (1:28:00) and Yuka Hakoyama (1:43:26). It is mostly contested by Japanese athletes, with Kenya's Willy Kangogo becoming the event's sole non-national winner in 2007.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Kumanichi Road Race, tell me when the race was first held and who holds the course records.", "output": "The Kumanichi Road Race was first held in 1957. Takayuki Matsumiya and Yuka Hakoyama hold the course records."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: August (2001), is the first novel by author Gerard Woodward. It was shortlisted for Whitbread Book Award (2001).\n Question: Given this paragraph, who wrote \"August?\"", "output": "Gerard Woodward"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: White Rabbit is a 2013 American psychological drama film directed by Tim McCann and starring Nick Krause, Sam Trammell and Britt Robertson. Written by Anthony Di Pietro, the film concerns a mentally-ill teen being bullied in high school, whose visions urge him to take revenge. It was produced by Robert Yocum (Burning Sky Films), Shaun Sanghani (SSS Entertainment) and Jacky Lee Morgan. It had its world premiere at the Zurich Film Festival and is being distributed in the United States by Breaking Glass Pictures.\n Question: Based on this paragraph, who directed White Rabbit?", "output": "Tim McCann"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific tasks.\n\nProperties\nThough the term large language model has no formal definition, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more. LLMs are general purpose models which excel at a wide range of tasks, as opposed to being trained for one specific task (such as sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or mathematical reasoning). The skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable, seems to be a function of the amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design.\n\nThough trained on simple tasks along the lines of predicting the next word in a sentence, neural language models with sufficient training and parameter counts are found to capture much of the syntax and semantics of human language. In addition, large language models demonstrate considerable general knowledge about the world, and are able to \"memorize\" a great quantity of facts during training.\n\nHallucinations\nMain article: Hallucination (artificial intelligence)\nIn artificial intelligence in general, and in large language models in particular, a \"hallucination\" is a confident response that does not seem to be justified by the model's training data.\n\nEmergent abilities\n\nOn a number of natural language benchmarks involving tasks such as question answering, models perform no better than random chance until they reach a certain scale (in this case, measured by training computation), at which point their performance sharply increases. These are examples of emergent abilities.\nUnpredictable abilities that have been observed in large language models but that were not present in simpler models (and that were not explicitly designed into the model) are usually called \"emergent abilities\". Researchers note that such abilities \"cannot be predicted simply by extrapolating the performance of smaller models\". These abilities are discovered rather than programmed-in or designed, in some cases only after the LLM has been publicly deployed. Hundreds of emergent abilities have been described. Examples include multi-step arithmetic, taking college-level exams, identifying the intended meaning of a word, chain-of-thought prompting, decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet, unscrambling a word\u2019s letters, identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs.\n\nArchitecture and training\nLarge language models have most commonly used the transformer architecture, which, since 2018, has become the standard deep learning technique for sequential data (previously, recurrent architectures such as the LSTM were most common). LLMs are trained in an unsupervised manner on unannotated text. A left-to-right transformer is trained to maximize the probability assigned to the next word in the training data, given the previous context. Alternatively, an LLM may use a bidirectional transformer (as in the example of BERT), which assigns a probability distribution over words given access to both preceding and following context. In addition to the task of predicting the next word or \"filling in the blanks\", LLMs may be trained on auxiliary tasks which test their understanding of the data distribution such as Next Sentence Prediction (NSP), in which pairs of sentences are presented and the model must predict whether they appear side-by-side in the training corpus.\n\nThe earliest LLMs were trained on corpora having on the order of billions of words. The first model in OpenAI's GPT series was trained in 2018 on BookCorpus, consisting of 985 million words. In the same year, BERT was trained on a combination of BookCorpus and English Wikipedia, totalling 3.3 billion words. In the years since then, training corpora for LLMs have increased by orders of magnitude, reaching up to hundreds of billions or trillions of tokens.\n\nLLMs are computationally expensive to train. A 2020 study estimated the cost of training a 1.5 billion parameter model (1-2 orders of magnitude smaller than the state of the art at the time) at $1.6 million.\n\nA 2020 analysis found that neural language models' capability (as measured by training loss) increased smoothly in a power law relationship with number of parameters, quantity of training data, and computation used for training. These relationships were tested over a wide range of values (up to seven orders of magnitude) and no attenuation of the relationship was observed at the highest end of the range (including for network sizes up to trillions of parameters).\n\nApplication to downstream tasks\nBetween 2018 and 2020, the standard method for harnessing an LLM for a specific natural language processing (NLP) task was to fine tune the model with additional task-specific training. It has subsequently been found that more powerful LLMs such as GPT-3 can solve tasks without additional training via \"prompting\" techniques, in which the problem to be solved is presented to the model as a text prompt, possibly with some textual examples of similar problems and their solutions.\n\nFine-tuning\nMain article: Fine-tuning (machine learning)\nFine-tuning is the practice of modifying an existing pretrained language model by training it (in a supervised fashion) on a specific task (e.g. sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or part-of-speech tagging). It is a form of transfer learning. It generally involves the introduction of a new set of weights connecting the final layer of the language model to the output of the downstream task. The original weights of the language model may be \"frozen\", such that only the new layer of weights connecting them to the output are learned during training. Alternatively, the original weights may receive small updates (possibly with earlier layers frozen).\n\nPrompting\nSee also: Prompt engineering and Few-shot learning (natural language processing)\nIn the prompting paradigm, popularized by GPT-3, the problem to be solved is formulated via a text prompt, which the model must solve by providing a completion (via inference). In \"few-shot prompting\", the prompt includes a small number of examples of similar (problem, solution) pairs. For example, a sentiment analysis task of labelling the sentiment of a movie review could be prompted as follows:\n\nReview: This movie stinks.\nSentiment: negative\n\nReview: This movie is fantastic!\nSentiment:\n\nIf the model outputs \"positive\", then it has correctly solved the task. In zero-shot prompting, no solve examples are provided. An example of a zero-shot prompt for the same sentiment analysis task would be \"The sentiment associated with the movie review 'This movie is fantastic!' is\".\n\nFew-shot performance of LLMs has been shown to achieve competitive results on NLP tasks, sometimes surpassing prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Examples of such NLP tasks are translation, question answering, cloze tasks, unscrambling words, and using a novel word in a sentence. The creation and optimisation of such prompts is called prompt engineering.\n\nInstruction tuning\nInstruction tuning is a form of fine-tuning designed to facilitate more natural and accurate zero-shot prompting interactions. Given a text input, a pretrained language model will generate a completion which matches the distribution of text on which it was trained. A naive language model given the prompt \"Write an essay about the main themes of Hamlet.\" might provide a completion such as \"A late penalty of 10% per day will be applied to submissions received after March 17.\" In instruction tuning, the language model is trained on many examples of tasks formulated as natural language instructions, along with appropriate responses. Various techniques for instruction tuning have been applied in practice. OpenAI's InstructGPT protocol involves supervised fine-tuning on a dataset of human-generated (prompt, response) pairs, followed by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), in which a reward function was learned based on a dataset of human preferences. Another technique, \"self-instruct\", fine-tunes the language model on a training set of examples which are themselves generated by an LLM (bootstrapped from a small initial set of human-generated examples).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Large language models, what is the prompting paradigm?", "output": "In the prompting paradigm, popularized by GPT-3, the problem to be solved is formulated via a text prompt, which the model must solve by providing a completion (via inference). In \"few-shot prompting\", the prompt includes a small number of examples of similar (problem, solution) pairs."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hearst died at the age of 70 in Washington, D.C., on February 28, 1891. The California Legislature and state courts adjourned so officials could attend his funeral. When Phoebe Apperson Hearst inherited her husband's wealth, she donated a great deal of it to help found new libraries at several universities. Hearst is buried in Cypress Lawn Cemetery in Colma, California. His widow and son were later buried there as well. The Hearst Memorial Mining Building on the Berkeley campus is dedicated to George Hearst. In 1996, he was inducted into the Hall of Great Westerners of the National Cowboy & Western Heritage Museum.\n Question: Based on this paragraph, during what year was Hearst born?", "output": "Hearst died at the age of 70 in 1891, so he must have been born in either 1820 or 1821."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Rudzk Du\u017cy [\u02c8rut\u0361sk \u02c8du\u0290\u0268] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Piotrk\u00f3w Kujawski, within Radziej\u00f3w County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland. It lies approximately 6 kilometres (4 mi) south-west of Piotrk\u00f3w Kujawski, 15 km (9 mi) south-west of Radziej\u00f3w, and 59 km (37 mi) south of Toru\u0144.\n Question: Which of the other locations mentioned in this article is closest to Rudzk Du\u017cy?", "output": "Piotrk\u00f3w Kujawski. Rudzk Du\u017cy is closest to Piotrk\u00f3w Kujawski."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: House is a music genre characterized by a repetitive four-on-the-floor beat and a typical tempo of 120 beats per minute. It was created by DJs and music producers from Chicago's underground club culture in the early/mid 1980s, as DJs began altering disco songs to give them a more mechanical beat.\n\nHouse was pioneered by African American DJs and producers in Chicago such as Frankie Knuckles, Ron Hardy, Jesse Saunders, Chip E., Joe Smooth, Steve \"Silk\" Hurley, Farley \"Jackmaster\" Funk, Marshall Jefferson, Phuture, and others. House music expanded to other cities such as London, then New York City and became a worldwide phenomenon.\n Question: Given the following paragraph, where did House music originate?", "output": "House music originated in Chicago, Illinois in the United States of America by producers/DJs such as Frankie Knuckles, Ron Hardy, and Jesse Saunders."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Leonardo is identified as one of the greatest painters in the history of art and is often credited as the founder of the High Renaissance. Despite having many lost works and fewer than 25 attributed major works\u2014including numerous unfinished works\u2014he created some of the most influential paintings in Western art. His magnum opus, the Mona Lisa, is his best known work and often regarded as the world's most famous painting. The Last Supper is the most reproduced religious painting of all time and his Vitruvian Man drawing is also regarded as a cultural icon. In 2017, Salvator Mundi, attributed in whole or part to Leonardo, was sold at auction for US$450.3 million, setting a new record for the most expensive painting ever sold at public auction.\n Question: Can you name a few of Leonardo's famous works", "output": "Mona Lisa, The Last Supper, Vitruvian Man, Salvator Mundi"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Amazon Kindle is a series of e-readers designed and marketed by Amazon. Amazon Kindle devices enable users to browse, buy, download, and read e-books, newspapers, magazines and other digital media via wireless networking to the Kindle Store. The hardware platform, which Amazon subsidiary Lab126 developed, began as a single device in 2007. Currently, it comprises a range of devices, including e-readers with E Ink electronic paper displays and Kindle applications on all major computing platforms. All Kindle devices integrate with Windows and macOS file systems and Kindle Store content and, as of March 2018, the store had over six million e-books available in the United States.\n Question: Given this paragraph about e-readers, what is the e-reader designed and marketed by Amazon?", "output": "Amazon Kindle"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Skiing is the use of skis to glide on snow. Variations of purpose include basic transport, a recreational activity, or a competitive winter sport. Many types of competitive skiing events are recognized by the International Olympic Committee (IOC), and the International Ski Federation (FIS).\n Question: what is snow skiing", "output": "skiing is a form of outdoor winter sport. Done in the mountains. You can ski on piste and off piste."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Himalayas, or Himalaya (/\u02cch\u026am\u0259\u02c8le\u026a.\u0259, h\u026a\u02c8m\u0251\u02d0l\u0259j\u0259/; Sanskrit: [\u0266\u026ama\u02d0l\u0250j\u0250]; from Sanskrit him\u00e1 'snow, frost', and \u0101-laya 'dwelling, abode'), is a mountain range in Asia, separating the plains of the Indian subcontinent from the Tibetan Plateau. The range has some of the planet's highest peaks, including the very highest, Mount Everest. Over 100 peaks exceeding 7,200 m (23,600 ft) in elevation lie in the Himalayas.\n Question: Where are Himayalas located?", "output": "The Himalayan mountain range is located in South East Asia. It spans India, Pakistan and Nepal."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Violet Constance Jessop (2 October 1887 \u2013 5 May 1971), often referred to as the \"Queen of sinking ships\" or \"Miss Unsinkable,\" was an Argentine woman of Irish heritage who worked as an ocean liner stewardess, memoirist, and nurse in the early 20th century. Jessop is most well known for having survived the sinking of both the RMS Titanic in 1912 and her sister ship the HMHS Britannic in 1916, as well as having been onboard the eldest of the three sister ships, the RMS Olympic, when it collided with the British warship HMS Hawke in 1911.\n Question: What is Violet Jessop well know for?", "output": "Violet Jessop is well known for been onboard the RSM Olympic when it collided in 1911, and letter surviving the RMS Titanic in 1912, and the HMHS Britannic in 1916."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1872 the Boundary Commission travelled through this area while surveying the border between Canada and the United States. During the 1874 March West trek of the North-West Mounted Police, the force established its first camp (called Short Creek Camp) at this location. The community began being served by the Soo Line in 1893, permitting the coal mines in the region to become operational. Roche Perc\u00e9e incorporated as a village on January 12, 1909.\n Question: Based on this passage, what was the first designated space to be established in Roche Percee called? Who established it and in what year?", "output": "The first established space was Short Creek Camp which was founded in 1874 by the North-West Mounted Police"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Swift refrained from discussing politics early in her career, fearing it might influence people. Critics took issue with her previously apolitical stance despite her wealth and celebrity. Swift publicly voiced her political opinion for the first time in the 2018 United States elections, when she endorsed Democratic candidates in her home state, Tennessee. In 2019, Swift told The Guardian that when she started her country music career, she was advised against discussing politics by her label executives because of the consequences of the Dixie Chicks controversy, but finally decided to speak up after she became disillusioned with contemporary American politics and moved out of Big Machine.\n\nShe identifies as a pro-choice feminist, and is one of the founding signatories of the Time's Up movement against sexual harassment. She criticized the US Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade (1973) and end federal abortion rights in 2022. Swift advocates for LGBT rights, and has called for the passing of the Equality Act, which prohibits discrimination based on sex, sexual orientation, and gender identity. The New York Times wrote her 2011 music video for \"Mean\" had a positive impact on the LGBTQ+ community. Swift performed during WorldPride NYC 2019 at the Stonewall Inn, frequently deemed the birthplace of the modern gay rights movement. She has donated to the LGBT organizations Tennessee Equality Project and GLAAD.\n Question: From this reference text, what political party does Taylor Swift belong to?", "output": "Taylor Swift is a democrat."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: After Jimmy John Liautaud graduated second to last in his class at Elgin Academy in 1982, his father gave him a choice to either join the Army or start a business. Although his father wanted him to enlist, the younger Liautaud chose the latter, and his father agreed to loan him $25,000 in exchange for a 48% stake in the business. Initially Jimmy John wanted to open a hot dog stand, but after visiting numerous such stands throughout the summer of 1982, he realized the $25,000 would not be enough for such a venture. After a chance encounter at a sandwich shop, Jimmy John realized that he could open a sandwich shop within his available budget by purchasing premium meats at a neighborhood market and baking his own bread. With the help of his family as tasters, he decided to put four sandwiches on his original menu. Paying $200 a month in rent, Liautaud could only afford used equipment consisting of a refrigerator, a chest freezer, an oven, and a meat slicer.\n\nOn January 13, 1983, Jimmy John's Gourmet Sandwiches opened in Charleston, Illinois. Due to the poor location of his first store, Liautaud decided to include delivery of his sandwiches to boost sales. He began by bringing samples door-to-door to the dorms of nearby Eastern Illinois University, which he had attended for one semester.\n Question: Given this reference text about Jimmy John's, where was the original Jimmy John's located?", "output": "The original Jimmy John's was located in Charleston, Illinois."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The history of the area now known as China has alternated between periods of prosperity, political unity, and peace and periods of war and statehood. The Yellow River nurtured China's civilization. Between eras of multiple kingdoms and warlordism, Chinese dynasties have ruled parts or all of China; in some eras control stretched as far as Xinjiang, Tibet and Inner Mongolia, as at present. The regions were occupied by other people-groups; often, non-settled peoples of the steppe identified as Mongolic, Turkic and Khitan. With thousands of years of continuous history, China is among the world's oldest civilizations and is regarded as one of the cradles of civilization.\n Question: Given this paragraph about history of China, what is the name of the river that nurtured China's civilization.", "output": "The river nurtured China's civilization is named the Yellow River"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Babylon 5 is an American space opera television series created by writer and producer J. Michael Straczynski, under the Babylonian Productions label, in association with Straczynski's Synthetic Worlds Ltd. and Warner Bros. Domestic Television. After the successful airing of a test pilot movie on February 22, 1993, Babylon 5: The Gathering, Warner Bros. commissioned the series for production in May 1993 as part of its Prime Time Entertainment Network (PTEN). The show premiered in the US on January 26, 1994, and ran for five 22-episode seasons.\n Question: Who wrote the TV series Babylon5?", "output": "Babylon 5 is an American television series created by writer and producer J. Michael Straczynski."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Driftwood River is a 15.5-mile-long (24.9 km) tributary of the East Fork of the White River in central Indiana in the United States. Via the White, Wabash and Ohio rivers, it is part of the watershed of the Mississippi River. It is a short river, formed by the confluence of two longer streams a short distance upstream of its mouth.\n\nCourse\nThe Driftwood River is formed in southeastern Johnson County, 1 mile (1.6 km) west of Edinburgh, by the confluence of Sugar Creek and the Big Blue River. It flows generally southwardly through northwestern Bartholomew County to Columbus, where it joins the Flatrock River to form the East Fork of the White River.\n\nNear Edinburgh, IN, Driftwood River has a mean annual discharge of 1,210 cubic feet per second.[\n Question: Given a reference text about the Driftwood River, tell me what main river it is part of.", "output": "The Driftwood River is part of the Mississippi River."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific tasks.\n\nProperties\nThough the term large language model has no formal definition, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more. LLMs are general purpose models which excel at a wide range of tasks, as opposed to being trained for one specific task (such as sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or mathematical reasoning). The skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable, seems to be a function of the amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design.\n\nThough trained on simple tasks along the lines of predicting the next word in a sentence, neural language models with sufficient training and parameter counts are found to capture much of the syntax and semantics of human language. In addition, large language models demonstrate considerable general knowledge about the world, and are able to \"memorize\" a great quantity of facts during training.\n\nHallucinations\nMain article: Hallucination (artificial intelligence)\nIn artificial intelligence in general, and in large language models in particular, a \"hallucination\" is a confident response that does not seem to be justified by the model's training data.\n\nEmergent abilities\n\nOn a number of natural language benchmarks involving tasks such as question answering, models perform no better than random chance until they reach a certain scale (in this case, measured by training computation), at which point their performance sharply increases. These are examples of emergent abilities.\nUnpredictable abilities that have been observed in large language models but that were not present in simpler models (and that were not explicitly designed into the model) are usually called \"emergent abilities\". Researchers note that such abilities \"cannot be predicted simply by extrapolating the performance of smaller models\". These abilities are discovered rather than programmed-in or designed, in some cases only after the LLM has been publicly deployed. Hundreds of emergent abilities have been described. Examples include multi-step arithmetic, taking college-level exams, identifying the intended meaning of a word, chain-of-thought prompting, decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet, unscrambling a word\u2019s letters, identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs.\n\nArchitecture and training\nLarge language models have most commonly used the transformer architecture, which, since 2018, has become the standard deep learning technique for sequential data (previously, recurrent architectures such as the LSTM were most common). LLMs are trained in an unsupervised manner on unannotated text. A left-to-right transformer is trained to maximize the probability assigned to the next word in the training data, given the previous context. Alternatively, an LLM may use a bidirectional transformer (as in the example of BERT), which assigns a probability distribution over words given access to both preceding and following context. In addition to the task of predicting the next word or \"filling in the blanks\", LLMs may be trained on auxiliary tasks which test their understanding of the data distribution such as Next Sentence Prediction (NSP), in which pairs of sentences are presented and the model must predict whether they appear side-by-side in the training corpus.\n\nThe earliest LLMs were trained on corpora having on the order of billions of words. The first model in OpenAI's GPT series was trained in 2018 on BookCorpus, consisting of 985 million words. In the same year, BERT was trained on a combination of BookCorpus and English Wikipedia, totalling 3.3 billion words. In the years since then, training corpora for LLMs have increased by orders of magnitude, reaching up to hundreds of billions or trillions of tokens.\n\nLLMs are computationally expensive to train. A 2020 study estimated the cost of training a 1.5 billion parameter model (1-2 orders of magnitude smaller than the state of the art at the time) at $1.6 million.\n\nA 2020 analysis found that neural language models' capability (as measured by training loss) increased smoothly in a power law relationship with number of parameters, quantity of training data, and computation used for training. These relationships were tested over a wide range of values (up to seven orders of magnitude) and no attenuation of the relationship was observed at the highest end of the range (including for network sizes up to trillions of parameters).\n\nApplication to downstream tasks\nBetween 2018 and 2020, the standard method for harnessing an LLM for a specific natural language processing (NLP) task was to fine tune the model with additional task-specific training. It has subsequently been found that more powerful LLMs such as GPT-3 can solve tasks without additional training via \"prompting\" techniques, in which the problem to be solved is presented to the model as a text prompt, possibly with some textual examples of similar problems and their solutions.\n\nFine-tuning\nMain article: Fine-tuning (machine learning)\nFine-tuning is the practice of modifying an existing pretrained language model by training it (in a supervised fashion) on a specific task (e.g. sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or part-of-speech tagging). It is a form of transfer learning. It generally involves the introduction of a new set of weights connecting the final layer of the language model to the output of the downstream task. The original weights of the language model may be \"frozen\", such that only the new layer of weights connecting them to the output are learned during training. Alternatively, the original weights may receive small updates (possibly with earlier layers frozen).\n\nPrompting\nSee also: Prompt engineering and Few-shot learning (natural language processing)\nIn the prompting paradigm, popularized by GPT-3, the problem to be solved is formulated via a text prompt, which the model must solve by providing a completion (via inference). In \"few-shot prompting\", the prompt includes a small number of examples of similar (problem, solution) pairs. For example, a sentiment analysis task of labelling the sentiment of a movie review could be prompted as follows:\n\nReview: This movie stinks.\nSentiment: negative\n\nReview: This movie is fantastic!\nSentiment:\n\nIf the model outputs \"positive\", then it has correctly solved the task. In zero-shot prompting, no solve examples are provided. An example of a zero-shot prompt for the same sentiment analysis task would be \"The sentiment associated with the movie review 'This movie is fantastic!' is\".\n\nFew-shot performance of LLMs has been shown to achieve competitive results on NLP tasks, sometimes surpassing prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Examples of such NLP tasks are translation, question answering, cloze tasks, unscrambling words, and using a novel word in a sentence. The creation and optimisation of such prompts is called prompt engineering.\n\nInstruction tuning\nInstruction tuning is a form of fine-tuning designed to facilitate more natural and accurate zero-shot prompting interactions. Given a text input, a pretrained language model will generate a completion which matches the distribution of text on which it was trained. A naive language model given the prompt \"Write an essay about the main themes of Hamlet.\" might provide a completion such as \"A late penalty of 10% per day will be applied to submissions received after March 17.\" In instruction tuning, the language model is trained on many examples of tasks formulated as natural language instructions, along with appropriate responses. Various techniques for instruction tuning have been applied in practice. OpenAI's InstructGPT protocol involves supervised fine-tuning on a dataset of human-generated (prompt, response) pairs, followed by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), in which a reward function was learned based on a dataset of human preferences. Another technique, \"self-instruct\", fine-tunes the language model on a training set of examples which are themselves generated by an LLM (bootstrapped from a small initial set of human-generated examples).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Large language models, what is an LLM?", "output": "A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Coffee is a beverage prepared from roasted coffee beans. Darkly colored, bitter, and slightly acidic, coffee has a stimulating effect on humans, primarily due to its caffeine content. It has the highest sales in the world market for hot drinks.\n\nSeeds of the Coffee plant's fruits are separated to produce un-roasted green coffee beans. The beans are roasted and then ground into fine particles that are typically steeped in hot water before being filtered out, producing a cup of coffee. It is usually served hot, although chilled or iced coffee is common. Coffee can be prepared and presented in a variety of ways (e.g., espresso, French press, caff\u00e8 latte, or already-brewed canned coffee). Sugar, sugar substitutes, milk, and cream are often used to mask the bitter taste or enhance the flavor.\"\n Question: What type of effect does Coffee have on humans?", "output": "Coffee has a stimulating effect on humans, primarily due to its caffeine content."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Zangisheh (Persian: \u0632\u0646\u06af\u064a\u0634\u0647, also Romanized as Zang\u012bsheh) is a village in Qarah Su Rural District, in the Central District of Kermanshah County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 153, in 34 families.\n Question: Based on this passage, what is the median number of people per family in Zangisheh?", "output": "This passage does not give enough information to conclude what the median number of people per family in Zangisheh is as it only mentions the total population and number of families. We could calculate the arithmetic mean of the number of people per family from this information by dividing the total number of people by the number of families, but the information in the passage is not sufficient to determine the median number of people per family."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Optimus, also known as Tesla Bot, is a conceptual general-purpose robotic humanoid under development by Tesla, Inc. It was announced at the company's Artificial Intelligence (AI) Day event on August 19, 2021. CEO Elon Musk claimed during the event that Tesla would likely build a prototype by 2022. Musk is on record having said that he thinks Optimus \"has the potential to be more significant than the vehicle business over time.\"\n\nTesla Bot is planned to measure 5 ft 8 in (173 cm) tall and weigh 125 lb (57 kg). According to the presentation made during the first AI Day event, a Tesla Bot will be \"controlled by the same AI system Tesla is developing for the advanced driver-assistance system used in its cars\" and have a carrying capacity of 45 lb (20 kg). Proposed tasks for the product are ones that are \"dangerous, repetitive and boring\", such as providing manufacturing assistance.\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optimus_(robot)\n Question: Given these paragraphs about the Tesla bot, what kind of tasks is it expected to perform?", "output": "Proposed tasks for the Tesla Bot are ones that are \"dangerous, repetitive and boring\", such as providing manufacturing assistance."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Southwestern United States, also known as the American Southwest or simply the Southwest, is a geographic and cultural region of the United States. Its exact boundaries are not officially defined, but attempts to do so generally include Arizona and New Mexico as the core of the region. Adjacent portions of California, Colorado, Nevada, and Utah are also sometimes included. Oklahoma and Texas may also be included, particularly the trans-pecos \"horn\" portion of the state(i.e. the far western extension of the state of the state south of the New Mexico border, but west and north of the Pecos and Rio Gande Rivers). The largest cities by metropolitan area are Phoenix, Las Vegas, El Paso, Albuquerque, and Tucson. Before 1848, in the historical region of Santa Fe de Nuevo M\u00e9xico as well as parts of Alta California and Coahuila y Tejas, settlement was almost non-existent outside of Nuevo M\u00e9xico's Pueblos and Spanish or Mexican municipalities. Much of the area had been a part of New Spain and Mexico until the United States acquired the area through the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848 and the smaller Gadsden Purchase in 1854.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Southwestern United States, name the largest cities in that area", "output": "The largest cities in the Southwestern United States are Phoenix, Las Vegas, El Paso, Albuquerque, and Tucson."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The first Tour de France was staged in 1903. The plan was a five-stage race from 31 May to 5 July, starting in Paris and stopping in Lyon, Marseille, Bordeaux, and Nantes before returning to Paris. Toulouse was added later to break the long haul across southern France from the Mediterranean to the Atlantic. Stages would go through the night and finish next afternoon, with rest days before riders set off again. But this proved too daunting and the costs too great for most and only 15 competitors had entered. Desgrange had never been wholly convinced and he came close to dropping the idea. Instead, he cut the length to 19 days, changed the dates to 1 to 19 July, and offered a daily allowance to those who averaged at least 20 kilometres per hour (12 mph) on all the stages, equivalent to what a rider would have expected to earn each day had he worked in a factory. He also cut the entry fee from 20 to 10 francs and set the first prize at 12,000 francs and the prize for each day's winner at 3,000 francs. The winner would thereby win six times what most workers earned in a year. That attracted between 60 and 80 entrants \u2013 the higher number may have included serious inquiries and some who dropped out \u2013 among them not just professionals but amateurs, some unemployed, and some simply adventurous.\n\nDesgrange seems not to have forgotten the Dreyfus Affair that launched his race and raised the passions of his backers. He announced his new race on 1 July 1903 by citing the writer \u00c9mile Zola, whose open letter J'Accuse\u2026! led to Dreyfus's acquittal, establishing the florid style he used henceforth.\n\nThe first Tour de France started almost outside the Caf\u00e9 Reveil-Matin at the junction of the Melun and Corbeil roads in the village of Montgeron. It was waved away by the starter, Georges Abran, at 3:16 p.m. on 1 July 1903. L'Auto hadn't featured the race on its front page that morning.[n 3]\n\nAmong the competitors were the eventual winner, Maurice Garin, his well-built rival Hippolyte Aucouturier, the German favourite Josef Fischer, and a collection of adventurers, including one competing as \"Samson\".[n 4]\n\nMany riders dropped out of the race after completing the initial stages, as the physical effort the tour required was just too much. Only a mere 24 entrants remained at the end of the fourth stage. The race finished on the edge of Paris at Ville d'Avray, outside the Restaurant du P\u00e8re Auto, before a ceremonial ride into Paris and several laps of the Parc des Princes. Garin dominated the race, winning the first and last two stages, at 25.68 kilometres per hour (15.96 mph). The last rider, Millocheau, finished 64h 47m 22s behind him.\n\nL'Auto's mission was accomplished, as circulation of the publication doubled throughout the race, making the race something much larger than Desgrange had ever hoped for.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the first tour de france, who won the first race", "output": "The first race in 1903 was won by Maurice Garin, over his rival Hippolyte Aucouturier"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Humans (Homo sapiens) are the most common and widespread species of primate in the great ape family Hominidae, and also the most common species of primate overall. Humans are broadly characterized by their bipedalism and high intelligence. Humans' large brain and resulting cognitive skills have allowed them to thrive in a variety of environments and develop complex societies and civilizations. Humans are highly social and tend to live in complex social structures composed of many cooperating and competing groups, from families and kinship networks to political states. As such, social interactions between humans have established a wide variety of values, social norms, languages, and rituals, each of which bolsters human society. The desire to understand and influence phenomena has motivated humanity's development of science, technology, philosophy, mythology, religion, and other conceptual frameworks.\n\nAlthough some scientists equate the term \"humans\" with all members of the genus Homo, in common usage it generally refers to Homo sapiens, the only extant member. Anatomically modern humans emerged around 300,000 years ago in Africa, evolving from Homo heidelbergensis or a similar species and migrating out of Africa, gradually replacing or interbreeding with local populations of archaic humans. For most of history, humans were nomadic hunter-gatherers. Humans began exhibiting behavioral modernity about 160,000\u201360,000 years ago. The Neolithic Revolution, which began in Southwest Asia around 13,000 years ago (and separately in a few other places), saw the emergence of agriculture and permanent human settlement. As populations became larger and denser, forms of governance developed within and between communities, and a number of civilizations have risen and fallen. Humans have continued to expand, with a global population of over 8 billion as of 2022.\n\nGenes and the environment influence human biological variation in visible characteristics, physiology, disease susceptibility, mental abilities, body size, and life span. Though humans vary in many traits (such as genetic predispositions and physical features), any two humans are at least 99% genetically similar. Humans are sexually dimorphic: generally, males have greater body strength and females have a higher body fat percentage. At puberty, humans develop secondary sexual characteristics. Females are capable of pregnancy, usually between puberty, at around 12 years old, and menopause, around the age of 50.\n\nHumans are omnivorous, capable of consuming a wide variety of plant and animal material, and have used fire and other forms of heat to prepare and cook food since the time of Homo erectus. Humans can survive for up to eight weeks without food and three or four days without water. Humans are generally diurnal, sleeping on average seven to nine hours per day. Childbirth is dangerous, with a high risk of complications and death. Often, both the mother and the father provide care for their children, who are helpless at birth.\n\nHumans have a large, highly developed, and complex prefrontal cortex, the region of the brain associated with higher cognition. Humans are highly intelligent, capable of episodic memory, have flexible facial expressions, self-awareness, and a theory of mind. The human mind is capable of introspection, private thought, imagination, volition, and forming views on existence. This has allowed great technological advancements and complex tool development to be possible through complex reasoning and the transmission of knowledge to subsequent generations. Language, art, and trade are defining characteristics of humans. Long-distance trade routes might have led to cultural explosions and resource distribution that gave humans an advantage over other similar species.\n Question: What is the origin of man?", "output": "Homo sapiens\nAnatomically modern humans emerged around 300,000 years ago in Africa, evolving from Homo heidelbergensis or a similar species and migrating out of Africa, gradually replacing or interbreeding with local populations of archaic humans. For most of history, humans were nomadic hunter-gatherers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Octavia Estelle Butler (June 22, 1947 \u2013 February 24, 2006) was an American science fiction author and a multiple recipient of the Hugo and Nebula awards. In 1995, Butler became the first science-fiction writer to receive a MacArthur Fellowship. Born in Pasadena, California, Butler was raised by her widowed mother. Extremely shy as a child, Butler found an outlet at the library reading fantasy, and in writing. She began writing science fiction as a teenager. She attended community college during the Black Power movement. While participating in a local writer's workshop, she was encouraged to attend the Clarion Workshop, then held in Pennsylvania, which focused on science fiction.\n Question: Who is Octavia Butler?", "output": "Octavia Butler was a black Hugo and Nebula awards winning science fiction author from Pasadena, California."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: When provided with a programming problem in natural language, Codex is capable of generating solution code. It is also able to describe input code in English and translate code between programming languages.\n\nAccording to its website, GitHub Copilot includes assistive features for programmers, such as the conversion of code comments to runnable code and autocomplete for chunks of code, repetitive sections of code, and entire methods and/or functions. GitHub reports that Copilot\u2019s autocomplete feature is accurate roughly half of the time; with some Python function header code, for example, Copilot correctly autocompleted the rest of the function body code 43% of the time on the first try and 57% of the time after ten attempts.\n\nGitHub states that Copilot\u2019s features allow programmers to navigate unfamiliar coding frameworks and languages by reducing the amount of time users spend reading documentation.\n Question: What are the features offered by Github Copilot?", "output": "GitHub Copilot includes assistive features for programmers, such as the conversion of code comments to runnable code and autocomplete for chunks of code, repetitive sections of code, and entire methods and/or functions."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Robert Kelly Slater (born February 11, 1972) is an American professional surfer, best known for being crowned World Surf League champion a record 11 times. Slater is widely regarded as the greatest professional surfer of all time, and holds 56 Championship Tour victories. Slater is also the oldest surfer still active on the World Surf League, winning his 8th Billabong Pipeline Masters title at age 49.\n Question: Who is the best surfer in the world", "output": "Kelly Slater"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Natural hydrogen (known as white hydrogen), is naturally occurring molecular hydrogen on or in Earth (as opposed to hydrogen produced in the laboratory or in industry). The name white hydrogen distinguishes it from green hydrogen, which is produced from renewable energy sources, and from grey, brown or black hydrogen, which is obtained from fossil sources or from the electrolysis of water. Natural hydrogen may be renewable, non-polluting and allows for lower cost operation compared to industrial hydrogen. Natural hydrogen has been identified in many source rocks in areas beyond the sedimentary basins where oil companies typically operate.\n\nOrigin of natural hydrogen\nThere are several sources of natural hydrogen:\n\n- degassing of deep hydrogen from the Earth's crust and mantle;\n- reaction of water with ultrabasic rocks (serpentinisation);\n- contact of water with reducing agents in the Earth's mantle;\n- interaction of water with freshly exposed rock surfaces (weathering);\n- decomposition of hydroxyl ions in the structure of minerals;\n- Natural radiolysis of water;\n- decomposition of organic matter;\n- biological activity\n- Extraction\n- Natural hydrogen is extracted from wells, mixed with other gases such as nitrogen or helium.\n\nSeveral sources have been identified in France. Geologists Alain Prinzhofer and Eric Derville have demonstrated the existence of large reservoirs in a dozen countries, including Mali and the United States. However, their potential remains difficult to assess.\n\nNumerous emanations on the ocean floor have been identified but are difficult to exploit. The discovery of a significant emergence in Russia in 2008 suggests the possibility of extracting native hydrogen in geological environments.\n\nGeology\nNatural hydrogen is generated continuously from a variety of natural sources. There are many known hydrogen emergences on mid-ocean ridges. Another of the known reactions, serpentinisation, occurs under the sea floor (in the oceanic crust).\n\nDiagenetic origin (iron oxidation) in the sedimentary basins of cratons, notably in Russia. Other sources are being explored, such as mantle hydrogen, or hydrogen from radiolysis (natural electrolysis) or from bacterial activity. In France, the Alps and Pyrenees are suitable for exploitation. New Caledonia has hyperalkaline sources that show dihydrogen emissions. A large accumulation of natural hydrogen was discovered in Bourakebougou (Mali).\n\nCharacteristics\nDihydrogen is very soluble in fresh water, especially at depth (solubility increases with pressure).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_hydrogen\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Natural hydrogen, what is another name for it that distinguishes from other forms of hydrogen?", "output": "White hydrogen"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Manis Lamond (born 14 September 1966) is a retired soccer player from Papua New Guinea. An international who played as a striker, Lamond played professionally in Australia for Canberra City, Sydney United, A.P.I.A. Leichhardt Tigers, Wollongong City, Marconi Stallions and Newcastle United and in Singapore for Sembawang Rangers.\n Question: What position did Manis Lamond play?", "output": "Manis Lamond was a striker"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The event was established in 1855, and it was originally called the Prix de l'Empereur. It was initially held at the Champ de Mars, and was transferred to Longchamp in 1857. It was cancelled due to the Franco-Prussian War in 1871, and was renamed the Grande Poule des Produits in 1872.\n\nThe race was one of several trials for the Prix du Jockey Club collectively known as the Poules des Produits. The others (listed by their modern titles) were the Prix Daru, the Prix Hocquart, the Prix Noailles and the Prix Greffulhe. Unlike those races, the Grande Poule des Produits had no restrictions based on the nationality of a horse's sire or dam.\n\nThe event was renamed in memory of Auguste Lupin (1807\u20131895), a successful owner-breeder, in 1896.\n\nThe Prix Lupin was abandoned throughout World War I, with no running from 1915 to 1918. It was cancelled once during World War II, in 1940. It was run at Le Tremblay over 2,150 metres in 1943, and at Maisons-Laffitte in 1944.\n\nThe present system of race grading was introduced in 1971, and the Prix Lupin was classed at Group 1 level.\n\nThe race was last run in 2004. It was discontinued after France Galop restructured its Group 1 programme for three-year-olds in 2005.\n Question: Why did the Prix Lupin not take place from 1915 to 1918?", "output": "Due to the first World War"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Tesla Model 3 became the world's all-time best-selling electric car in early 2020, and in June 2021 became the first electric car to pass 1 million global sales. Together with other emerging automotive technologies such as autonomous driving, connected vehicles and shared mobility, electric cars form a future mobility vision called Autonomous, Connected, Electric and Shared (ACES) Mobility.\n Question: When was the Tesla Model 3 unit one million sold?", "output": "June 2021"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Patrick James Mara (1 February 1942 \u2013 15 January 2016) was an Irish public affairs consultant and politician who served as Senator from July 1981 to October 1981 and May 1982 to December 1982. He was most renowned for being the political adviser to former Taoiseach Charles Haughey. He also served as Press Secretary to Fianna F\u00e1il from 1983 to 1987 and Government Press Secretary from 1987 to 1992.\n\nHe was appointed the Fianna F\u00e1il Director of Elections for the 1997, 2002, and 2007 general elections. He was a member of the board of Digicel, the company founded by Denis O'Brien to build mobile networks in the Caribbean.\n\nHe was regularly lampooned on the satirical Raidi\u00f3 Teilif\u00eds \u00c9ireann (RT\u00c9) radio sketch show Scrap Saturday, which ran from 1989 to 1991.\n Question: Given a reference text about Patrick James Mara, tell me what he was known for.", "output": "Patrick James Mara was most known for being a political adviser to Taoiseach Charles Haughey and serving as Press Secretary and Government Press Secretary."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Drake Maye was born on August 30, 2002, in Charlotte, North Carolina. He attended and played high school football for Myers Park High School in Charlotte, where he was named MaxPreps North Carolina player of the year. He was a four-star prospect and originally committed to Alabama before flipping to North Carolina.\n Question: Given this paragraph, which highs school did Drake Maye attend?", "output": "Based on this text, Drake Maye attended Myers Park High School in Charlotte, North Carolina."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pukeiti Pukeiti (c. 1948 - 18 October 2012) was a Cook Islands politician and Member of the Cook Islands Parliament. He was a member of the Cook Islands Party. He represented the electorate of Tamarua.\n\nPukeiti was elected to Parliament in the 2009 Tamarua by-election following the death of MP Mii Parima. He was re-elected at the 2010 election.\n Question: How old was Pukeiti when he died?", "output": "64 years old. He was born in 1948 and died in 2012, so 2012 - 1948 = 64."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sir Thomas Staples, 9th Baronet (31 July 1775 \u2013 14 May 1865) was an Anglo-Irish politician and lawyer. He was the last surviving person to have been a member of the Irish House of Commons, albeit only having been in the House for a short time.\n Question: Given the following paragraph about politicians, who was the last surviving person to have been a member of the Irish House of Commons?", "output": "Sir Thomas Staples, 9th Baronet"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Milky Way is the galaxy that includes the Solar System, with the name describing the galaxy's appearance from Earth: a hazy band of light seen in the night sky formed from stars that cannot be individually distinguished by the naked eye. The term Milky Way is a translation of the Latin via lactea, from the Greek \u03b3\u03b1\u03bb\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u1f78\u03c2 \u03ba\u03cd\u03ba\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 (galaktik\u00f2s k\u00fdklos), meaning \"milky circle\". From Earth, the Milky Way appears as a band because its disk-shaped structure is viewed from within. Galileo Galilei first resolved the band of light into individual stars with his telescope in 1610. Until the early 1920s, most astronomers thought that the Milky Way contained all the stars in the Universe. Following the 1920 Great Debate between the astronomers Harlow Shapley and Heber Doust Curtis, observations by Edwin Hubble showed that the Milky Way is just one of many galaxies.\n Question: What is Milky Way?", "output": "Milky Way is the galaxy that includes Solar System in which our planet Earth is located."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Instituto de Ense\u00f1anza Secundaria Lope de Vega (IES Lope de Vega) is a public high school in Madrid, Spain. It is located in the calle de San Bernardo. It is operated by the regional administration of the Community of Madrid.\n Question: In which city is this high school located?", "output": "Madrid"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Foley first described the use of a self-retaining balloon catheter in 1929, to be used to achieve hemostasis after cystoscopic prostatectomy. He worked on development of this design for use as an indwelling urinary catheter, to provide continuous drainage of the bladder, in the 1930s. His design incorporated an inflatable balloon towards the tip of the tube which could be inflated inside the bladder to retain the catheter without external taping or strapping. He demonstrated this to the American Urologists Society in 1935, and published a paper describing it in 1937. While he was still developing his catheter, a patent was issued to Paul Raiche of the Davol Rubber Company of Providence, Rhode Island in 1936. Four months later, in October 1936, Foley applied for the patent, and was awarded this after appearing before the patent office Board of Appeals. Raiche appealed this decision in court, and it was overturned, returning the patent to Raiche. A further request for a hearing made by Foley was refused, and so the patent stayed with Raiche.\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frederic_Foley\n Question: According to this paragraph, did Frederic Foley hold the patent to the Foley catheter?", "output": "According to this paragraph, Frederic Foley applied for the patent but it was ultimately awarded to Paul Riache instead."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Time travel is the concept of movement between certain points in time, analogous to movement between different points in space by an object or a person, typically with the use of a hypothetical device known as a time machine. Time travel is a widely recognized concept in philosophy and fiction, particularly science fiction. The idea of a time machine was popularized by H. G. Wells' 1895 novel The Time Machine.\n Question: Given this paragraph about time travel, how practical is it", "output": "Yes, time travel is indeed a real thing. But it's not quite what you've probably seen in the movies. Under certain conditions, it is possible to experience time passing at a different rate than 1 second per second. And there are important reasons why we need to understand this real-world form of time travel."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Evelyn Quan Wang is a middle-aged Chinese American immigrant who runs a laundromat with her husband, Waymond; two decades earlier, they eloped to the United States and had a daughter, Joy. The laundromat is being audited by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Waymond is trying to serve Evelyn divorce papers in an attempt to get her attention so they can talk things out regarding their marriage, Evelyn's demanding father (referred to as Gong Gong, Cantonese for 'grandfather') is visiting for her Chinese New Year party, and Evelyn is reluctant to accept Joy's lesbian relationship with her non-Chinese girlfriend Becky (only introducing Becky to Gong Gong as Joy's \"very good friend\").\n Question: Who is Evelyn Quan Wang in the move \"Everything Everywhere All at Once\"?", "output": "Evelyn Quan Wang is a middle-aged Chinese American immigrant who runs a laundromat with her husband, Waymond."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Designed to supplement Disneyland in Anaheim, California, which had opened in 1955, the complex was developed by Walt Disney in the 1960s. \"The Florida Project\", as it was known, was intended to present a distinct vision with its own diverse set of attractions. Walt Disney's original plans also called for the inclusion of an \"Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow\" (EPCOT), a planned community intended to serve as a testbed for new city-living innovations. Walt Disney died on December 15, 1966, during the initial planning of the complex. After his death, the company wrestled with the idea of whether to bring the Disney World project to fruition; however, Walt's older brother, Roy O. Disney, came out of retirement to make sure Walt's biggest dream was realized. Construction started in 1967, with the company instead building a resort similar to Disneyland, abandoning the experimental concepts for a planned community. The Magic Kingdom was the first theme park to open in the complex, in 1971, followed by Epcot (1982), Disney's Hollywood Studios (1989), and Disney's Animal Kingdom (1998). It was Roy who insisted the name of the entire complex be changed from Disney World to Walt Disney World, ensuring that people would remember that the project was Walt's dream.\n Question: Given this paragraph, which was built first Disneyland or Disney World?", "output": "According to this text, Disneyland was built first in 1955, with Disney World construction starting later in 1967 and first opening in 1971."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sam F.S. Chin (Chin Fan Siong, \u66fe\u5e06\u7965, born August 1, 1954) is the Grandmaster and Gatekeeper of the martial art called I Liq Chuan, and also known as \"the Martial Art of Awareness\". Chin developed the grading system for this system.\n\nChin was trained since childhood by his father, Chin Lik Keong, founder of I Liq Chuan, and in 1978, he won the state heavy weight kickboxing championships of Selangor (Malaysia). In August 2009 Chin was officially named the Gate Keeper and Lineage Holder of the I Liq Chuan. He is also the founder and President of Chin Family I Liq Chuan Association that supports the martial art's growth.\n\nChin has taught workshops worldwide , written two books on his family's martial art, co-authored articles, and produced a series of DVDs. Chin was interviewed by Jess O'Brien for his 2007 book \"Nei Jia Quan: Internal Martial Arts\".\n\nIn August 2009, Chin was also recognized by the USA Wushu Kung-Fu Federation as a Hall of Fame Outstanding Master. In 2014, he was written about by Ashe Higgs in Kung Fu Tai Chi Magazine \"Finding the Center: I Liq Chuan\u2019s Three Essential Qualities for Offense and Defense as One\". Chin was also the subject of the 2016 CCTV Documentary \"Kung Fu Abroad: I Liq Chuan \u4e2d\u592e\u7535\u89c6\u53f0\u300a\u529f\u592b\u5728\u5916\u300b\u7eaa\u5f55\u7247\".\n\nOn November 15, 2017 Sam Chin became an honorary professor at the University of Plovdiv, Bulgaria in recognition of his lifetime of achievement in spreading I Liq Chuan.\n Question: What is I Liq Chuan?", "output": "I Liq Chuan is a style of martial art founded by Chin Lik Keong from Malaysia that is also known as the \"Martial Art of Awareness\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kostas Georgakis (Greek: \u039a\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u0393\u03b5\u03c9\u03c1\u03b3\u03ac\u03ba\u03b7\u03c2) (23 August 1948 \u2013 19 September 1970) was a Greek student of geology, who in the early hours of 19 September 1970, set himself ablaze in Matteotti square in Genoa in a fatal protest against the dictatorial regime of Georgios Papadopoulos.\n\nEarly life\nGeorgakis grew up in Corfu in a family of five. His father was a self-employed tailor of modest means. Both his father and grandfather distinguished themselves in the major wars that Greece fought in the 20th century. He attended the second lyceum in Corfu where he excelled in his studies. In August 1967, a few months after the 21 April coup in Greece, Georgakis went to Italy to study as a geologist in Genoa. He received 5,000 drachmas per month from his father and this, according to friends' testimony, made him feel guilty for the financial burden his family endured so that he could attend a university. In Italy he met Rosanna, an Italian girl of the same age and they got engaged. In 1968 Georgakis became a member of the Center Union party of Georgios Papandreou.\n Question: Given a reference text about Kostas Georgakis, when did he go to Italy and what did he do there?", "output": "Kostas Georgakis went to Genoa, Italy in 1967 to study geology."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the United States, a 401(k) plan is an employer-sponsored, defined-contribution, personal pension (savings) account, as defined in subsection 401(k) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Periodical employee contributions come directly out of their paychecks, and may be matched by the employer. This legal option is what makes 401(k) plans attractive to employees, and many employers offer this option to their (full-time) workers.\n\nThere are two types: traditional and Roth 401(k). For Roth accounts, contributions and withdrawals have no impact on income tax. For traditional accounts, contributions may be deducted from taxable income and withdrawals are added to taxable income. There are limits to contributions, rules governing withdrawals and possible penalties.\n\nThe benefit of the Roth account is from tax-free capital gains. The net benefit of the traditional account is the sum of (1) a possible bonus (or penalty) from withdrawals at tax rates lower (or higher) than at contribution, and (2) the impact on qualification for other income-tested programs from contributions and withdrawals reducing and adding to taxable income, minus the consequences of capital gains being taxed at regular income rates.\n Question: What is a Roth 401(k)?", "output": "Roth 401(k) is a type of 401(k) where accounts, contributions, and withdrawals have no impact on income tax. The benefit of the Roth account is that the capital gains are tax-free.\n\nIn the United States, a 401(k) plan is an employer-sponsored, defined-contribution, personal pension (savings) account, as defined in subsection 401(k) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Periodical employee contributions come directly out of their paychecks and may be matched by the employer."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ihor Lapin (born 28 May 1969 in Ivanychi) is a Ukrainian lawyer and politician who is a former (2014-2019) Member of the Parliament of Ukraine.\n\nDuring the War in Donbass (eastern Ukraine) he was commander of the 2nd assault squadron \"West\" of the 24th Battalion of Territorial Defense \"Aidar\" of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, formed mainly from volunteers from Volyn Region.\n\nIn the Russian-Ukrainian war, he was the commander of the Special Forces Battalion of the First Separate Special Forces Brigade, named after Ivan Bohun.\n\nBefore the war, he worked as a lawyer, and was a member of the Bar Qualification-Disciplinary Commission of Volyn Region.\n Question: Given a reference text about Ihor Lapin, tell me what he did before the war.", "output": "Before the war, Ihor Lapin was a lawyer and a member of the Bar Qualification-Disciplinary Commission."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Magnesium is a chemical element with the symbol Mg and atomic number 12. It is a shiny gray metal having a low density, low melting point and high chemical reactivity. Like the other alkaline earth metals (group 2 of the periodic table) it occurs naturally only in combination with other elements and it almost always has an oxidation state of +2. It reacts readily with air to form a thin passivation coating of magnesium oxide that inhibits further corrosion of the metal. The free metal burns with a brilliant-white light. The metal is obtained mainly by electrolysis of magnesium salts obtained from brine. It is less dense than aluminium and is used primarily as a component in strong and lightweight alloys that contain aluminium.\n Question: Given this paragraph about magnesium, what is the atomic number of magnesium?", "output": "The atomic number of magnesium is 12."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific tasks.\n\nProperties\nThough the term large language model has no formal definition, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more. LLMs are general purpose models which excel at a wide range of tasks, as opposed to being trained for one specific task (such as sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or mathematical reasoning). The skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable, seems to be a function of the amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design.\n\nThough trained on simple tasks along the lines of predicting the next word in a sentence, neural language models with sufficient training and parameter counts are found to capture much of the syntax and semantics of human language. In addition, large language models demonstrate considerable general knowledge about the world, and are able to \"memorize\" a great quantity of facts during training.\n\nHallucinations\nMain article: Hallucination (artificial intelligence)\nIn artificial intelligence in general, and in large language models in particular, a \"hallucination\" is a confident response that does not seem to be justified by the model's training data.\n\nEmergent abilities\n\nOn a number of natural language benchmarks involving tasks such as question answering, models perform no better than random chance until they reach a certain scale (in this case, measured by training computation), at which point their performance sharply increases. These are examples of emergent abilities.\nUnpredictable abilities that have been observed in large language models but that were not present in simpler models (and that were not explicitly designed into the model) are usually called \"emergent abilities\". Researchers note that such abilities \"cannot be predicted simply by extrapolating the performance of smaller models\". These abilities are discovered rather than programmed-in or designed, in some cases only after the LLM has been publicly deployed. Hundreds of emergent abilities have been described. Examples include multi-step arithmetic, taking college-level exams, identifying the intended meaning of a word, chain-of-thought prompting, decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet, unscrambling a word\u2019s letters, identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs.\n\nArchitecture and training\nLarge language models have most commonly used the transformer architecture, which, since 2018, has become the standard deep learning technique for sequential data (previously, recurrent architectures such as the LSTM were most common). LLMs are trained in an unsupervised manner on unannotated text. A left-to-right transformer is trained to maximize the probability assigned to the next word in the training data, given the previous context. Alternatively, an LLM may use a bidirectional transformer (as in the example of BERT), which assigns a probability distribution over words given access to both preceding and following context. In addition to the task of predicting the next word or \"filling in the blanks\", LLMs may be trained on auxiliary tasks which test their understanding of the data distribution such as Next Sentence Prediction (NSP), in which pairs of sentences are presented and the model must predict whether they appear side-by-side in the training corpus.\n\nThe earliest LLMs were trained on corpora having on the order of billions of words. The first model in OpenAI's GPT series was trained in 2018 on BookCorpus, consisting of 985 million words. In the same year, BERT was trained on a combination of BookCorpus and English Wikipedia, totalling 3.3 billion words. In the years since then, training corpora for LLMs have increased by orders of magnitude, reaching up to hundreds of billions or trillions of tokens.\n\nLLMs are computationally expensive to train. A 2020 study estimated the cost of training a 1.5 billion parameter model (1-2 orders of magnitude smaller than the state of the art at the time) at $1.6 million.\n\nA 2020 analysis found that neural language models' capability (as measured by training loss) increased smoothly in a power law relationship with number of parameters, quantity of training data, and computation used for training. These relationships were tested over a wide range of values (up to seven orders of magnitude) and no attenuation of the relationship was observed at the highest end of the range (including for network sizes up to trillions of parameters).\n\nApplication to downstream tasks\nBetween 2018 and 2020, the standard method for harnessing an LLM for a specific natural language processing (NLP) task was to fine tune the model with additional task-specific training. It has subsequently been found that more powerful LLMs such as GPT-3 can solve tasks without additional training via \"prompting\" techniques, in which the problem to be solved is presented to the model as a text prompt, possibly with some textual examples of similar problems and their solutions.\n\nFine-tuning\nMain article: Fine-tuning (machine learning)\nFine-tuning is the practice of modifying an existing pretrained language model by training it (in a supervised fashion) on a specific task (e.g. sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or part-of-speech tagging). It is a form of transfer learning. It generally involves the introduction of a new set of weights connecting the final layer of the language model to the output of the downstream task. The original weights of the language model may be \"frozen\", such that only the new layer of weights connecting them to the output are learned during training. Alternatively, the original weights may receive small updates (possibly with earlier layers frozen).\n\nPrompting\nSee also: Prompt engineering and Few-shot learning (natural language processing)\nIn the prompting paradigm, popularized by GPT-3, the problem to be solved is formulated via a text prompt, which the model must solve by providing a completion (via inference). In \"few-shot prompting\", the prompt includes a small number of examples of similar (problem, solution) pairs. For example, a sentiment analysis task of labelling the sentiment of a movie review could be prompted as follows:\n\nReview: This movie stinks.\nSentiment: negative\n\nReview: This movie is fantastic!\nSentiment:\n\nIf the model outputs \"positive\", then it has correctly solved the task. In zero-shot prompting, no solve examples are provided. An example of a zero-shot prompt for the same sentiment analysis task would be \"The sentiment associated with the movie review 'This movie is fantastic!' is\".\n\nFew-shot performance of LLMs has been shown to achieve competitive results on NLP tasks, sometimes surpassing prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Examples of such NLP tasks are translation, question answering, cloze tasks, unscrambling words, and using a novel word in a sentence. The creation and optimisation of such prompts is called prompt engineering.\n\nInstruction tuning\nInstruction tuning is a form of fine-tuning designed to facilitate more natural and accurate zero-shot prompting interactions. Given a text input, a pretrained language model will generate a completion which matches the distribution of text on which it was trained. A naive language model given the prompt \"Write an essay about the main themes of Hamlet.\" might provide a completion such as \"A late penalty of 10% per day will be applied to submissions received after March 17.\" In instruction tuning, the language model is trained on many examples of tasks formulated as natural language instructions, along with appropriate responses. Various techniques for instruction tuning have been applied in practice. OpenAI's InstructGPT protocol involves supervised fine-tuning on a dataset of human-generated (prompt, response) pairs, followed by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), in which a reward function was learned based on a dataset of human preferences. Another technique, \"self-instruct\", fine-tunes the language model on a training set of examples which are themselves generated by an LLM (bootstrapped from a small initial set of human-generated examples).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Large language models, what are some examples of emergent abilities?", "output": "Examples include multi-step arithmetic, taking college-level exams, identifying the intended meaning of a word, chain-of-thought prompting, decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet, unscrambling a word\u2019s letters, identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Professor Tatyana Grigorievna Nazarenko is one of the leading Russian contemporary painters who has set new directions in Russian Art and Painting starting from the 1970s. She was born in Moscow where she still lives and works.\n Question: Does Grigorievna Nazarenko live in Moscow?", "output": "Yes, she lives in Moscow"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Atlanta Falcons are a professional American football team based in Atlanta. The Falcons compete in the National Football League (NFL) as a member club of the league's National Football Conference (NFC) South division. The Falcons were founded on June 30, 1965, and joined the NFL in 1966 as an expansion team, after the NFL offered then-owner Rankin Smith a franchise to keep him from joining the rival American Football League (AFL).\n\nIn their 55 years of existence, the Falcons have compiled a record of 379\u2013487\u20136 (369\u2013473\u20136 in the regular season and 10\u201314 in the playoffs), winning division championships in 1980, 1998, 2004, 2010, 2012, and 2016. The Falcons have appeared in two Super Bowls, the first during the 1998 season in Super Bowl XXXIII, where they lost to the Denver Broncos 34\u201319, and the second 18 years later, a 34\u201328 overtime loss to the New England Patriots in Super Bowl LI.\n\nThe Falcons' current home field is Mercedes-Benz Stadium, which opened for the 2017 season; the team's headquarters and practice facilities are located at a 50-acre (20 ha) site in Flowery Branch, northeast of Atlanta in Hall County.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Falcons, how many Super Bowls have they won in their history?", "output": "Although the falcons have been to two Super Bowl games in their history, they have not won a Super Bowl yet."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sensory processing disorder (SPD, formerly known as sensory integration dysfunction) is a condition in which multisensory input is not adequately processed in order to provide appropriate responses to the demands of the environment. Sensory processing disorder is present in many people with autism spectrum disorder and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Individuals with SPD may inadequately process visual, auditory, olfactory (smell), gustatory (taste), tactile (touch), vestibular (balance), proprioception (body awareness), and interoception (internal body senses) sensory stimuli.\n\nSensory integration was defined by occupational therapist Anna Jean Ayres in 1972 as \"the neurological process that organizes sensation from one's own body and from the environment and makes it possible to use the body effectively within the environment\".Sensory processing disorder has been characterized as the source of significant problems in organizing sensation coming from the body and the environment and is manifested by difficulties in the performance in one or more of the main areas of life: productivity, leisure and play or activities of daily living.\nSources debate whether SPD is an independent disorder or represents the observed symptoms of various other, more well-established, disorders.SPD is not included in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders of the American Psychiatric Association, and the American Academy of Pediatrics has recommended in 2012 that pediatricians not use SPD as a stand-alone diagnosis.\n Question: What is Sensory processing disorder?", "output": "Sensory processing disorder (SPD, formerly known as sensory integration dysfunction) is a condition in which multisensory input is not adequately processed to provide appropriate responses to the demands of the environment. Sensory processing disorder is present in many people with autism spectrum disorder and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Individuals with SPD may inadequately process visual, auditory, olfactory (smell), gustatory (taste), tactile (touch), vestibular (balance), proprioception (body awareness), and interoception (internal body senses) sensory stimuli."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Battle of Baghaur was fought between the Sikh forces led by Guru Gobind Singh and the Baghaur forces led by Shiv Partap at Rajasthan.\n\nBackground\nDaya Singh and Dharam Singh were sent to the embassy of Aurangzeb to send a letter written by Guru Gobind Singh called the Zafarnama. Aurangzeb was moved by the letter and invited the Guru. At Baghaur in Rajasthan, Daya Singh and Dharam Singh met the guru. There he also heard the news that Aurangzeb had died in his camp at Ahmadnagar. The residents were, for some unknown reason, scared from the Guru and planned to attack him. They were mainly terrified of the Guru's caravan which is what made the Guru store it somewhere for a few days. A few days had passed and the Sikhs went on to check the caravan camels. They had gone missing. They had consumed orchard trees, which made a gardener confiscate them. He further beat up the camel driver and took him hostage.\n\nBattle\nAfter the camel incident, 15 Sikhs went in and attempted to negotiate the release of the camels and the driver. The gardener refused and the Sikhs fought. This led to state soldiers launching a counterattack and a battle ensued which lasted 2 days long. Many casualties occurred during this period of time. The Sikhs had successfully plundered the city but the fort still remained. As the fight entered the third day, Dharam Singh with the Sikhs made a dash and kept fighting and killing everyone. Peace was proclaimed but on the day the Raja arrived, the hostilities continued. Dharam Singh killed the rajas command-in-chief while the guru finished the raja himself. The Raja's force made a complete surrender which resulted in a Sikh victory.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Battle of Baghaur, tell me who was in the battle and who won.", "output": "The Sikh forces defeated Baghaur forces in the Battle of Baghaur."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Janne Mortil (born December 14, 1967) is a Vancouver-based Canadian-American actress probably best known for playing Madeleine Astor in Titanic (1996) and Michelle Dupont in the television series Side Effects, for which she was nominated for a Gemini, and Detective Tricia Kelsey in Street Justice (1991\u20131993).\n\nCareer\nJanne Mortil began her career with a 1973 appearance in The Beachcombers at the age of five. She was a regular in the 1970s soap opera House of Pride. She performed on stage in the 1979 Vancouver Playhouse Theatre Company's production of The Innocents and appeared in 1980 in Huckleberry Finn and His Friends television series.\n\nHer movie roles include Sally Moffat in Little Women (1994). In 1996, she played Madeleine Astor in the television movie Titanic, opposite Catherine Zeta-Jones. In 2003, she played Sergeant Kibble in Hitcher 2.\n\nHer television credits include 21 Jump Street, The X-Files, Poltergeist: The Legacy and Cold Squad. In 1992 she provided narration for the CBC documentary mini-series The Valour and the Horror. She played also Detective Tricia Kelsey on Street Justice (1991-1992) and Michelle Dupont, the clinic's receptionist in Side Effects (1994-1996). For the latter role, she was nominated for a 1996 Gemini Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Dramatic Series.\n Question: Given a reference text about Janne Mortil, tell me what she is most known for.", "output": "Janne Mortil is likely best known for her roles as Madeleine Astor in the movie \"Titanic\", Michelle Dupont in the TV show \"Side Effects\", and Detective Tricia Kelsey in \"Street Justice\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Penguins (order Sphenisciformes /sf\u026a\u02c8n\u026as\u0259f\u0254\u02d0rmi\u02d0z/, family Spheniscidae /sf\u026a\u02c8n\u026as\u026adi\u02d0, -da\u026a/) are a group of aquatic flightless birds. They live almost exclusively in the Southern Hemisphere: only one species, the Gal\u00e1pagos penguin, is found north of the Equator. Highly adapted for life in the water, penguins have countershaded dark and white plumage and flippers for swimming. Most penguins feed on krill, fish, squid and other forms of sea life which they catch with their bills and swallow whole while swimming. A penguin has a spiny tongue and powerful jaws to grip slippery prey.\n Question: Can Penguins fly?", "output": "Penguins are a group of aquatic flightless birds."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Instituto de Ense\u00f1anza Secundaria Lope de Vega (IES Lope de Vega) is a public high school in Madrid, Spain. It is located in the calle de San Bernardo. It is operated by the regional administration of the Community of Madrid.\n Question: In which European country is this school located?", "output": "Spain"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The record for the most Grammy Awards won in a lifetime is held by Beyonc\u00e9, an American singer, songwriter, and dancer, who has won 32. It was previously held by Georg Solti, a Hungarian-British conductor, who won 31.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Grammy Awards, who has the most Grammys of all time?", "output": "The current record holder for most Grammy Awards won in a lifetime is Beyonc\u00e9."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Eric Arthur Blair (25 June 1903 \u2013 21 January 1950), better known by his pen name George Orwell, was an English novelist, essayist, journalist, and critic. His work is characterized by lucid prose, social criticism, opposition to totalitarianism, and support of democratic socialism.\n\nOrwell produced literary criticism, poetry, fiction and polemical journalism. He is known for the allegorical novella Animal Farm (1945) and the dystopian novel Nineteen Eighty-Four (1949). His non-fiction works, including The Road to Wigan Pier (1937), documenting his experience of working-class life in the industrial north of England, and Homage to Catalonia (1938), an account of his experiences soldiering for the Republican faction of the Spanish Civil War (1936\u20131939), are as critically respected as his essays on politics, literature, language and culture.\n\nBlair was born in India, and raised and educated in England. After school he became an Imperial policeman in Burma, before returning to Suffolk, England, where he began his writing career as George Orwell\u2014a name inspired by a favourite location, the River Orwell. He lived from occasional pieces of journalism, and also worked as a teacher or bookseller whilst living in London. From the late 1920s to the early 1930s, his success as a writer grew and his first books were published. He was wounded fighting in the Spanish Civil War, leading to his first period of ill health on return to England. During the Second World War he worked as a journalist and for the BBC. The publication of Animal Farm led to fame during his lifetime. During the final years of his life he worked on Nineteen Eighty-Four, and moved between Jura in Scotland and London. It was published in June 1949, less than a year before his death.\n\nOrwell's work remains influential in popular culture and in political culture, and the adjective \"Orwellian\"\u2014describing totalitarian and authoritarian social practices\u2014is part of the English language, like many of his neologisms, such as \"Big Brother\", \"Thought Police\", \"Room 101\", \"Newspeak\", \"memory hole\", \"doublethink\", and \"thoughtcrime\". In 2008, The Times ranked George Orwell second among \"The 50 greatest British writers since 1945\".\n Question: Given a reference text about a George Orwell, tell me when and where they were born, what books they wrote, and what their most famous accomplishment were.", "output": "Eric Arthur Blair, better known by his pen name George Orwell, was born in Motihari, Bengal Presidency, British India on June 25th, 1903.  Raised and educated in England, Orwell fought in the Spanish Civil War, worked as a journalist for the BBC during World War 2 and went on to author a number of literary classics such as Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty Four which lead to him being named among the top 50 greatest British writers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Nomadism is a way of life in which people don't have a permanent place to live. Instead, they move around a certain area in search of food and grazing land.\n Question: What is the meaning of \"tidal coupling\"?", "output": "Tidal coupling or synchronous rotation is what causes one astronomical object's face to be fixed pointing to another, just as the Moon's visible face is always pointing to the Earth. A coupled object takes the same amount of time to rotate about its axis as it does to translate around its companion. This synchronous rotation, also known as captured rotation or synchronous rotation, causes one hemisphere to point continuously toward the companion object. Normally, only the satellite couples around a larger planet, but if the mass difference between the two bodies and the distance between them is small, both objects may have a reciprocal tidal coupling, as Pluto and Charon do."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Artificial neural networks (ANNs), usually simply called neural networks (NNs) or neural nets, are computing systems inspired by the biological neural networks that constitute animal brains. An ANN is based on a collection of connected units or nodes called artificial neurons, which loosely model the neurons in a biological brain. Each connection, like the synapses in a biological brain, can transmit a signal to other neurons. An artificial neuron receives signals then processes them and can signal neurons connected to it. The \"signal\" at a connection is a real number, and the output of each neuron is computed by some non-linear function of the sum of its inputs. The connections are called edges. Neurons and edges typically have a weight that adjusts as learning proceeds. The weight increases or decreases the strength of the signal at a connection. Neurons may have a threshold such that a signal is sent only if the aggregate signal crosses that threshold.\nutomatically generate identifying characteristics from the examples that they process.Typically, neurons are aggregated into layers. Different layers may perform different transformations on their inputs. Signals travel from the first layer (the input layer), to the last layer (the output layer), possibly after traversing the layers multiple times.\n Question: What are artificial neural networks?", "output": "Neural networks are computer systems inspired by the biological neural networks that constitute animal brains"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ready Player One is a 2011 science fiction novel, and the debut novel of American author Ernest Cline. The story, set in a dystopia in 2045, follows protagonist Wade Watts on his search for an Easter egg in a worldwide virtual reality game, the discovery of which would lead him to inherit the game creator's fortune. Cline sold the rights to publish the novel in June 2010, in a bidding war to the Crown Publishing Group (a division of Random House). The book was published on August 16, 2011. An audiobook was released the same day; it was narrated by Wil Wheaton, who was mentioned briefly in one of the chapters.Ch. 20 In 2012, the book received an Alex Award from the Young Adult Library Services Association division of the American Library Association and won the 2011 Prometheus Award.\n Question: Who wrote Ready Player One?", "output": "Ready Player One is a 2011 science fiction novel written by American author Ernest Cline."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ferrets spend 14\u201318 hours a day asleep and are most active around the hours of dawn and dusk, meaning they are crepuscular. If they are caged, they should be taken out daily to exercise and satisfy their curiosity; they need at least an hour and a place to play. Unlike their polecat ancestors, which are solitary animals, most ferrets will live happily in social groups. They are territorial, like to burrow, and prefer to sleep in an enclosed area.\n Question: Given this paragraph about ferrets, do they spend the majority of the time sleeping in a 24 hour day?", "output": "Yes, ferrets sleep 14 to 18 hours per day."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The third century AD showed some remarkable development for the empire as well as a potential decline and collapse. Emperor Caracalla's edict in 212 AD known as the Antoninian constitution delivered Roman citizenship to every free man in the empire, starting the decline of the importance of the city of Rome and indeed of Roman Italy for the Roman Empire. By the mid-third century AD, Pax Romana had come to an end, and several crises hit the empire simultaneously in a period known to history as the Crisis of the third century. This period saw the empire exposed to rampant inflation, natural disasters, secession and civil wars taking places over several decades. The secessions ended with emperor Aurelian\u2019s conquest of the secessionist Palmyrene Empire and Gallic Empire in 273 and 274 AD, as Aurelian unified a splintered empire which, according to many historians, should have been doomed. However, Aurelian was assassinated in 276 AD, sparking additional civil wars. The crisis came to an end only through the ascension of emperor Diocletian to the throne. The West suffered more heavily from these decades of crisis due to this distinction between the established and more prosperous Hellenised East and the younger colonized and Romanized West that had persisted. This cultural division of the Roman Empire into an eastern Greek and western Latin part became increasingly important in later centuries, leading to a gradual estrangement of the two Roman worlds.\n\nEmperor Diocletian created the administrative system known as the Dominate to guarantee security in all endangered regions of his empire. The dominate was in comparison with the principate, a huge imperial bureaucracy, which laid the foundations for the power structure of the later Eastern Roman Empire. With this came a redistricting and reduction of Roman provinces. Diocletian scrapped any pretense of republican rule as the emperor moved away from formally being merely \"Princeps\" to being \"Dominus\" - Lord and master. Diocletian also formally finished the process of restructuring the empire, from being a colonial-styled empire ruled by Rome and Roman Italians in the first century AD to a larger imperial entity where the emperor's court was not bound to the city of Rome or Italy, now only one Roman imperial province among many. The norm of emperors being Roman Italians was first broken by emperor Trajan who came from Hispania. By the time of the Severan dynasty, most emperors were originating from outside of Italy. When Diocletian introduced his reforms, this had the effect of the Roman Senate formally lost its already declining imperial influence and became a de facto regional body of decision-making.\n\nAn early instance of the partition of the empire into East and West occurred in 286, when Emperor Diocletian appointed Maximian as augustus of the West. In 293 AD, the empire went through a devolution under Diocletian known as the Tetrarchy. The empire was split into four, with the two most prominent parts of the empire each ruled by one emperor (Augustus). Each co-emperor then appointed a young colleague as caesar to be a subordinate emperor with control over his own territory. The Caesar shared power with and would eventually succeed the senior partner. Each tetrarch was in charge of a part of the empire, with the divisions based on geographic regions. This devolution outlines the coming split 100 years later when the empire was permanently divided into an eastern and western empire. The tetrarchy however only lasted 20 years, as emperors quickly began fighting each other for power. The whole empire was eventually reunited by Constantine the Great in 324 after he ended the last of these civil wars.\n Question: Given the referenced text, what Roman Emperor gave Roman Citizenship to all free men?", "output": "Emperor Caracalla gave Roman Citizenship to all free men in the Roman Empire."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ludwig van Beethoven[n 1] (baptised 17 December 1770 \u2013 26 March 1827) was a German composer and pianist. Beethoven remains one of the most admired composers in the history of Western music; his works rank among the most performed of the classical music repertoire and span the transition from the Classical period to the Romantic era in classical music. His career has conventionally been divided into early, middle, and late periods. His early period, during which he forged his craft, is typically considered to have lasted until 1802. From 1802 to around 1812, his middle period showed an individual development from the styles of Joseph Haydn and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, and is sometimes characterized as heroic. During this time, he began to grow increasingly deaf. In his late period, from 1812 to 1827, he extended his innovations in musical form and expression.\n Question: Who was Beethoven?", "output": "Beethoven was a German composer and pianist known for his famous symphonies such as Moonlight Sonata."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In West Africa, the decline of the Atlantic slave trade in the 1820s caused dramatic economic shifts in local polities. The gradual decline of slave-trading, prompted by a lack of demand for slaves in the New World, increasing anti-slavery legislation in Europe and America, and the British Royal Navy's increasing presence off the West African coast, obliged African states to adopt new economies. Between 1808 and 1860, the British West Africa Squadron seized approximately 1,600 slave ships and freed 150,000 Africans who were aboard.\n\nAction was also taken against African leaders who refused to agree to British treaties to outlaw the trade, for example against \"the usurping King of Lagos\", deposed in 1851. Anti-slavery treaties were signed with over 50 African rulers. The largest powers of West Africa (the Asante Confederacy, the Kingdom of Dahomey, and the Oyo Empire) adopted different ways of adapting to the shift. Asante and Dahomey concentrated on the development of \"legitimate commerce\" in the form of palm oil, cocoa, timber and gold, forming the bedrock of West Africa's modern export trade. The Oyo Empire, unable to adapt, collapsed into civil wars.\n Question: What new economies developed because of the anti-slave treaties?", "output": "Instead of exporting slaves, Africa began exporting palm oil, cocoa, timber, and gold."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific tasks.\n\nProperties\nThough the term large language model has no formal definition, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more. LLMs are general purpose models which excel at a wide range of tasks, as opposed to being trained for one specific task (such as sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or mathematical reasoning). The skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable, seems to be a function of the amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design.\n\nThough trained on simple tasks along the lines of predicting the next word in a sentence, neural language models with sufficient training and parameter counts are found to capture much of the syntax and semantics of human language. In addition, large language models demonstrate considerable general knowledge about the world, and are able to \"memorize\" a great quantity of facts during training.\n\nHallucinations\nMain article: Hallucination (artificial intelligence)\nIn artificial intelligence in general, and in large language models in particular, a \"hallucination\" is a confident response that does not seem to be justified by the model's training data.\n\nEmergent abilities\n\nOn a number of natural language benchmarks involving tasks such as question answering, models perform no better than random chance until they reach a certain scale (in this case, measured by training computation), at which point their performance sharply increases. These are examples of emergent abilities.\nUnpredictable abilities that have been observed in large language models but that were not present in simpler models (and that were not explicitly designed into the model) are usually called \"emergent abilities\". Researchers note that such abilities \"cannot be predicted simply by extrapolating the performance of smaller models\". These abilities are discovered rather than programmed-in or designed, in some cases only after the LLM has been publicly deployed. Hundreds of emergent abilities have been described. Examples include multi-step arithmetic, taking college-level exams, identifying the intended meaning of a word, chain-of-thought prompting, decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet, unscrambling a word\u2019s letters, identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs.\n\nArchitecture and training\nLarge language models have most commonly used the transformer architecture, which, since 2018, has become the standard deep learning technique for sequential data (previously, recurrent architectures such as the LSTM were most common). LLMs are trained in an unsupervised manner on unannotated text. A left-to-right transformer is trained to maximize the probability assigned to the next word in the training data, given the previous context. Alternatively, an LLM may use a bidirectional transformer (as in the example of BERT), which assigns a probability distribution over words given access to both preceding and following context. In addition to the task of predicting the next word or \"filling in the blanks\", LLMs may be trained on auxiliary tasks which test their understanding of the data distribution such as Next Sentence Prediction (NSP), in which pairs of sentences are presented and the model must predict whether they appear side-by-side in the training corpus.\n\nThe earliest LLMs were trained on corpora having on the order of billions of words. The first model in OpenAI's GPT series was trained in 2018 on BookCorpus, consisting of 985 million words. In the same year, BERT was trained on a combination of BookCorpus and English Wikipedia, totalling 3.3 billion words. In the years since then, training corpora for LLMs have increased by orders of magnitude, reaching up to hundreds of billions or trillions of tokens.\n\nLLMs are computationally expensive to train. A 2020 study estimated the cost of training a 1.5 billion parameter model (1-2 orders of magnitude smaller than the state of the art at the time) at $1.6 million.\n\nA 2020 analysis found that neural language models' capability (as measured by training loss) increased smoothly in a power law relationship with number of parameters, quantity of training data, and computation used for training. These relationships were tested over a wide range of values (up to seven orders of magnitude) and no attenuation of the relationship was observed at the highest end of the range (including for network sizes up to trillions of parameters).\n\nApplication to downstream tasks\nBetween 2018 and 2020, the standard method for harnessing an LLM for a specific natural language processing (NLP) task was to fine tune the model with additional task-specific training. It has subsequently been found that more powerful LLMs such as GPT-3 can solve tasks without additional training via \"prompting\" techniques, in which the problem to be solved is presented to the model as a text prompt, possibly with some textual examples of similar problems and their solutions.\n\nFine-tuning\nMain article: Fine-tuning (machine learning)\nFine-tuning is the practice of modifying an existing pretrained language model by training it (in a supervised fashion) on a specific task (e.g. sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or part-of-speech tagging). It is a form of transfer learning. It generally involves the introduction of a new set of weights connecting the final layer of the language model to the output of the downstream task. The original weights of the language model may be \"frozen\", such that only the new layer of weights connecting them to the output are learned during training. Alternatively, the original weights may receive small updates (possibly with earlier layers frozen).\n\nPrompting\nSee also: Prompt engineering and Few-shot learning (natural language processing)\nIn the prompting paradigm, popularized by GPT-3, the problem to be solved is formulated via a text prompt, which the model must solve by providing a completion (via inference). In \"few-shot prompting\", the prompt includes a small number of examples of similar (problem, solution) pairs. For example, a sentiment analysis task of labelling the sentiment of a movie review could be prompted as follows:\n\nReview: This movie stinks.\nSentiment: negative\n\nReview: This movie is fantastic!\nSentiment:\n\nIf the model outputs \"positive\", then it has correctly solved the task. In zero-shot prompting, no solve examples are provided. An example of a zero-shot prompt for the same sentiment analysis task would be \"The sentiment associated with the movie review 'This movie is fantastic!' is\".\n\nFew-shot performance of LLMs has been shown to achieve competitive results on NLP tasks, sometimes surpassing prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Examples of such NLP tasks are translation, question answering, cloze tasks, unscrambling words, and using a novel word in a sentence. The creation and optimisation of such prompts is called prompt engineering.\n\nInstruction tuning\nInstruction tuning is a form of fine-tuning designed to facilitate more natural and accurate zero-shot prompting interactions. Given a text input, a pretrained language model will generate a completion which matches the distribution of text on which it was trained. A naive language model given the prompt \"Write an essay about the main themes of Hamlet.\" might provide a completion such as \"A late penalty of 10% per day will be applied to submissions received after March 17.\" In instruction tuning, the language model is trained on many examples of tasks formulated as natural language instructions, along with appropriate responses. Various techniques for instruction tuning have been applied in practice. OpenAI's InstructGPT protocol involves supervised fine-tuning on a dataset of human-generated (prompt, response) pairs, followed by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), in which a reward function was learned based on a dataset of human preferences. Another technique, \"self-instruct\", fine-tunes the language model on a training set of examples which are themselves generated by an LLM (bootstrapped from a small initial set of human-generated examples).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Large language models, what is hallucination?", "output": "In artificial intelligence in general, and in large language models in particular, a \"hallucination\" is a confident response that does not seem to be justified by the model's training data."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Alberto Mich\u00e1n Halbinger (born 2 December 1978) is an Israeli-Mexican Olympic horse rider. Born in Mexico, he competes for Israel. He qualified to represent Israel at the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo.\n\nBiography\nMichan was born in Mexico; his family comes from Israel.\n\nHe was a finalist at the FEI World Cup Jumping in 2006 and 2007.\n\nHe competed in the 2006 and 2014 World Equestrian Games.\n\nHe competed for Mexico at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, both in individual jumping (coming in 29th) and in team jumping (coming in 8th).\n\nHe earned a bronze medal in Team Jumping at the 2011 Pan American Games in Guadalajara, Mexico.\n\nAt the 2012 Summer Olympics, he tied with Scott Brash and Nick Skelton, both of the team-gold medal-winning United Kingdom, for 5th in individual jumping. He was part of the Mexican team for team jumping, which finished in fifth place.\n\nHe qualified to represent Israel at the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo.\n Question: Given a reference text about Alberto Mich\u00e1n Halbinger, in what olympics did he compete?", "output": "Alberto Mich\u00e1n Halbinger competed in the 2008 and 2012 Summer Olympics."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Micha\u0142 Rozenfeld (born 1916, died September 2, 1943, in Krawcowizna) \u2013 a Jewish resistance activist during the Second World War, participant of the Warsaw Ghetto uprising, partisan of the Mordechai Anielewicz Unit of the People's Guard.\n\nBefore the outbreak of the war, he studied psychology with, among others, Tadeusz Kotarbi\u0144ski. After the outbreak of World War II, Rozenfeld was sent to the Warsaw Ghetto, where he worked as a teacher. He belonged to the Polish Workers' Party and was a member of the Main Command of the Jewish Combat Organization. He stayed in a bunker with Mordechai Anielewicz at 18 Mi\u0142a Street. On May 18, 1943, together with a group of Jewish fighters, he got through the sewers to Prosta Street.\n\nAfter the fall of the uprising, Rozenfeld took refuge in forests near Wyszk\u00f3w, where he fought in a unit of the People's Guard. Together with his companions he was handed over to the Germans by a forest ranger from Krawcowizna. Twelve partisans, including Micha\u0142 Rozenfeld, were killed at that time.\n\nIn 1945 he was posthumously awarded the Silver Cross of the Order of Virtuti Militari.\n\nRozenfeld is buried in a mass grave of the People's Guard partisans in the Jewish cemetery on Okopowa Street in Warsaw (quarter 31, row 3).\n Question: Given a reference text about Micha\u0142 Rozenfeld, tell me what he did before the war and where he's buried.", "output": "Micha\u0142 Rozenfeld studied psychology before being sent to the Warsaw Ghetto during the war. He is buried at the Jewish Cemetery on Okopowa Street in Warsaw."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A red letter day (sometimes hyphenated as red-letter day) is any day of special significance or opportunity. Its roots are in classical antiquity; for instance, important days are indicated in red in a calendar dating from the Roman Republic (509\u201327 BC).\n\nIn medieval manuscripts, initial capitals and highlighted words (known as rubrics) were written in red ink. The practice was continued after the invention of the printing press, including in Catholic liturgical books. Many calendars still indicate special dates, festivals and holidays in red instead of black.\n\nIn the universities of the UK, scarlet days are when doctors may wear their scarlet 'festal' or full dress gowns instead of their undress ('black') gown.\n\nIn Norway, Sweden, Hong Kong, South Korea, Indonesia and some Latin American countries, a public holiday is sometimes referred to as \"red day\" (r\u00f8d dag, r\u00f6d dag, \ube68\uac04 \ub0a0, \u7d05\u65e5, tanggal merah), as it is printed in red in calendars\n Question: Given a reference text about a red letter day, provide an explanation of what it means.", "output": "A red letter day is any day of special significance or opportunity such as holidays and festivals."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hockey Club Davos is a professional Swiss ice hockey club based in Davos, Switzerland. Davos plays in the National League (NL). It is generally referred to by its abbreviation \"HCD\" by the fans. The team is usually a strong force in the league and often bolster their roster with Swiss national team players and players who once played for National Hockey League teams. HC Davos also has hosted the annual Spengler Cup tournament, an invitational competition, since 1923.\n\nThe team had the lowest attendance of the National League for the 2016\u201317 season, averaging 4,792 spectators over their 25 regular season home games.\n\nHistory\nHC Davos was founded in 1921. In 1923, Davos presented the first Spengler Cup, one of the oldest tournaments in sports still being played.\n\nHC Davos was led by a forward line known as \"The ni-storm\" (German: Der ni-sturm) from 1933 to 1950, which included Bibi Torriani, along with brothers Hans Cattini and Ferdinand Cattini. The line was named for the last syllable (-ni) of players' surnames. The ni-storm was regarded as the top line of HC Davos and the Switzerland men's national ice hockey team from 1933 to 1950. During this time, the club won 18 Swiss championships, and six Spengler Cups.\n\nThe team was relegated into 1. Liga in 1990, one of the lowest points in its history. After a new beginning, the club moved into the Swiss League, and two years later returned to the NL. Davos has been among the best teams in the league since, with recent league championships in 2002, 2005, 2007, 2009, 2011, and 2015.[citation needed]\n Question: Does Davos have a good hockey team", "output": "Davos indeed has an excellent hockey team and a record of most Swiss national titles.\n\nHockey Club Davos is a professional Swiss ice hockey club based in Davos, Switzerland. Davos plays in the National League (NL). It is generally referred to by its abbreviation \"HCD\" by the fans. The team is usually a strong force in the league and often bolster their roster with Swiss national team players and players who once played for National Hockey League teams. HC Davos also has hosted the annual Spengler Cup tournament, an invitational competition, since 1923.\n\nThe team had the lowest attendance of the National League for the 2016\u201317 season, averaging 4,792 spectators over their 25 regular season home games.\n\nHistory\nHC Davos was founded in 1921. In 1923, Davos presented the first Spengler Cup, one of the oldest tournaments in sports still being played.\n\nHC Davos was led by a forward line known as \"The ni-storm\" (German: Der ni-sturm) from 1933 to 1950, which included Bibi Torriani, along with brothers Hans Cattini and Ferdinand Cattini. The line was named for the last syllable (-ni) of players' surnames. The ni-storm was regarded as the top line of HC Davos and the Switzerland men's national ice hockey team from 1933 to 1950. During this time, the club won 18 Swiss championships, and six Spengler Cups.\n\nThe team was relegated into 1. Liga in 1990, one of the lowest points in its history. After a new beginning, the club moved into the Swiss League, and two years later returned to the NL. Davos has been among the best teams in the league since, with recent league championships in 2002, 2005, 2007, 2009, 2011, and 2015."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In football, \"The Invincibles\" is a nickname used to refer to the Preston North End team of the 1888\u201389 season, managed by William Sudell, and the Arsenal team of the 2003\u201304 season managed by Ars\u00e8ne Wenger.  Preston North End earned the nickname after completing an entire season undefeated in league and cup competition (27 games), while Arsenal were undefeated in the league (38 games) in a run that stretched to a record 49 games. The actual nickname of the Preston team was the \"Old Invincibles\" but both versions have been in use.\n Question: Who is known as The Invincibles in English football?", "output": "Preston North End & Arsenal Football Club"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Flesh from these animals is often commercially sold in restaurants as \"langostino\" or sometimes dishonestly called \"lobster\" when incorporated in seafood dishes. As well as being used for human consumption, there is demand for squat lobster meat to be used as feed in fish farms and shrimp or prawn farms. This is in part because they contain astaxanthin, a pigment that helps to colour the meat of farmed salmon and trout.\nDespite their worldwide distribution and great abundance, there are few functioning fisheries for squat lobsters. Experimental fisheries have occurred in several countries, including Argentina, Mexico, and New Zealand, but commercial exploitation is currently restricted to Latin America, and chiefly to Chile. The main target species are Pleuroncodes monodon, P. planipes, and Cervimunida johni.\nIn Central America, the primary species of squat lobster targeted by fisheries is a species of Pleuroncodes. There is a great deal of confusion over both scientific names and common names, and the exact species is often unknown. In El Salvador, for instance, the commercial catch is generally referred to as \"P. planipes\", but is in fact P. monodon. Commercial fishing for squat lobsters in El Salvador began in the early 1980s; production increased markedly in the 2001 season, and has continued to grow, now making up 98% of the demersal resources landed in El Salvador, with annual catches peaking at 13,708 t in 2005. In Costa Rica, aggregations of squat lobsters are avoided, as the fishermen fear the squat lobsters will clog their nets. In Nicaragua, squat lobsters are heavily exploited, especially following a large increase in fishing effort in the 2007 season. In Panama, production reached 492 t in 2008. Chilean squat lobster fisheries initially targeted Cervimunida johni, beginning in 1953. By the mid-1960s, effort had largely switched to P. monodon. In an effort to conserve stocks, the Chilean government instituted quotas for squat lobsters, and the fishery is closely monitored. In New Zealand, Munida gregaria has been considered as a potential fisheries resource, particularly to feed farmed Chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha).\n Question: Based on the following paragraph on squat lobster fisheries, where do such fisheries exist today?", "output": "Commercial fisheries for squat lobsters currently exist only in Latin America, mainly in Chile due to the restriction on commercial exploitation of these animals. There are, however, a number of experimental fisheries in countries such as Argentina, Mexico, and New Zealand."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The main entrance on the west side of the building faces North 14th Avenue. The building is fronted by a concrete porch with three steps leading to louvered double doors surrounded by windows. Panels of five lights each flank the doors, and above it a seven panel fanlight frames a sign with the club's name. Gabled returns supported by pilasters and a pair of Tuscan columns show a neoclassical architectural influence. Two four-light windows with green shutters are centered on either side of the door. Each of the windows has green two-panel shutters with cutouts of a full moon on top and a crescent moon on the bottom. The north and south side have four windows each, and the back of the building has three. The building is painted white and sheathed in clapboard except the four bottom courses covered with asbestos shingles. The porches and roof are green.\n Question: How many windows does the building have based on the provided paragraph?", "output": "There are a total of 13 windows.\n\nThe side of the house with the entrance has two four-light windows, the north and south side have four windows each, and the back of the building has three.\n\nTherefore, in total, the house has 2 + 4 + 4 + 3 windows or 13 windows."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Several methods exist for storing hydrogen. These include mechanical approaches such as using high pressures and low temperatures, or employing chemical compounds that release H2 upon demand. While large amounts of hydrogen are produced by various industries, it is mostly consumed at the site of production, notably for the synthesis of ammonia. For many years hydrogen has been stored as compressed gas or cryogenic liquid, and transported as such in cylinders, tubes, and cryogenic tanks for use in industry or as propellant in space programs. Interest in using hydrogen for on-board storage of energy in zero-emissions vehicles is motivating the development of new methods of storage, more adapted to this new application. The overarching challenge is the very low boiling point of H2: it boils around 20.268 K (\u2212252.882 \u00b0C or \u2212423.188 \u00b0F). Achieving such low temperatures requires expending significant energy.\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hydrogen_storage\n Question: Given this paragraph about Hydrogen Storage, what is the hydrogen boiling point?", "output": "It boils around 20.268 K (\u2212252.882 \u00b0C or \u2212423.188 \u00b0F)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 1999 UEFA Champions League final was an association football match between Manchester United of England and Bayern Munich of Germany, played at Camp Nou in Barcelona, Spain, on 26 May 1999, to determine the winner of the 1998\u201399 UEFA Champions League. Injury time goals from Manchester United's Teddy Sheringham and Ole Gunnar Solskj\u00e6r cancelled out Mario Basler's early goal for Bayern to give Manchester United a 2\u20131 win. Referee Pierluigi Collina has cited this match as one of the most memorable of his career, and described the noise from the crowd at the end of the game as being like a \"lion's roar\".\n\nThe two sides had played each other earlier in the competition, having both been drawn in Group D in the group stage; Bayern won the group, while Manchester United qualified for the knockout phase as one of the two best runners-up across all six groups. After beating Inter Milan in the quarter-finals, Manchester United beat another Italian side, Juventus, in the semis to reach the final; meanwhile, Bayern beat fellow Germans Kaiserslautern in the quarter-finals, before overcoming Ukrainian side Dynamo Kyiv in the semis. The victory completed a treble-winning season for Manchester United, after they had won the Premier League and FA Cup. Bayern were also playing for a treble, having won the Bundesliga and reached the DFB-Pokal final, although they went on to lose that match as well.\n Question: Tell me about the 1999 UEFA champions league final?", "output": "The 1999 Champions league final was won by Manchester United in dramatic fashion when they scored two goals in injury time. Teddy Sheringham and Ole Solskjaer scored late on for United after they'd conceded a goal early in the first half. The victory gave manchester United the \"treble\" and is considered one of the greatest achievements in the history of club football."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Optimus, also known as Tesla Bot, is a conceptual general-purpose robotic humanoid under development by Tesla, Inc. It was announced at the company's Artificial Intelligence (AI) Day event on August 19, 2021. CEO Elon Musk claimed during the event that Tesla would likely build a prototype by 2022. Musk is on record having said that he thinks Optimus \"has the potential to be more significant than the vehicle business over time.\"\n\nTesla Bot is planned to measure 5 ft 8 in (173 cm) tall and weigh 125 lb (57 kg). According to the presentation made during the first AI Day event, a Tesla Bot will be \"controlled by the same AI system Tesla is developing for the advanced driver-assistance system used in its cars\" and have a carrying capacity of 45 lb (20 kg). Proposed tasks for the product are ones that are \"dangerous, repetitive and boring\", such as providing manufacturing assistance.\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optimus_(robot)\n Question: Given these paragraphs about the Tesla bot, where and when was it announced?", "output": "It was announced at the company's Artificial Intelligence (AI) Day event on August 19, 2021."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tiramisu appears to have been invented in the 1960s, but where and when exactly is unclear.\n\nThe recipe for tiramisu is not found in cookbooks before the 1960s. It is mentioned in a Sydney Morning Herald restaurant column published in 1978. It is not mentioned in encyclopedias and dictionaries of the 1970s, first appearing in an Italian dictionary in 1980, and in English in 1982. It is mentioned in a 1983 cookbook devoted to cooking of the Veneto.\n\nObituaries for the restaurateur Ado Campeol (1928\u20132021) reported that it was invented at his restaurant Le Beccherie in Treviso on 24 December 1969 by his wife Alba di Pillo (1929\u20132021) and the pastry chef Roberto Linguanotto. The dish was added to its menu in 1972. Accounts by Carminantonio Iannaccone claim the tiramisu sold at Le Beccherie was made by him in his bakery, created on 24 December 1969.\n\nIt has been claimed that tiramisu has aphrodisiac effects and was concocted by a 19th-century Treviso brothel madam, as the Accademia Del Tiramis\u00f9 explains, to \"solve the problems they may have had with their conjugal duties on their return to their wives\".\n\nThere is evidence of a \"Tiremes\u00f9\" semi-frozen dessert served by the Vetturino restaurant in Pieris, in the Friuli Venezia Giulia, since 1938. This may be the name's origin, while the recipe for Tiramisu may have originated as a variation of another layered dessert, Zuppa Inglese. Others claim it was created towards the end of the 17th century in Siena in honour of Grand Duke Cosimo III.\n\nOn 29 July 2017, Tiramisu was entered by the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies on the list of traditional Friulian and Giulian agri-food products in the Friuli Venezia Giulia region. In 2013, Luca Zaia, governor of Veneto sought European Union Protected Status certification for the dessert, based on the ingredients used in 1970, so substitute ingredients, such as strawberries, could not be used in a dish called tiramisu\n Question: What is better: Tiramisu with chocolate or with Strawberries ?", "output": "Tiramisu with strawberries can not be called Tiramisu. Only with chocolate."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Vietnam War (also known by other names) was a conflict in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia from 1 November 1955 to the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975. It was the second of the Indochina Wars and was officially fought between North Vietnam and South Vietnam\n Question: When did the Vietnam War Start?", "output": "The Vietnam War started on 1 November 1955"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The centaurs were usually said to have been born of Ixion and Nephele. As the story goes, Nephele was a cloud made into the likeness of Hera in a plot to trick Ixion into revealing his lust for Hera to Zeus. Ixion seduced Nephele and from that relationship centaurs were created. Another version, however, makes them children of Centaurus, a man who mated with the Magnesian mares. Centaurus was either himself the son of Ixion and Nephele (inserting an additional generation) or of Apollo and the nymph Stilbe. In the latter version of the story, Centaurus's twin brother was Lapithes, ancestor of the Lapiths.\n\nAnother tribe of centaurs was said to have lived on Cyprus. According to Nonnus, they were fathered by Zeus, who, in frustration after Aphrodite had eluded him, spilled his seed on the ground of that land. \n\nThere were also the Lamian Pheres, twelve rustic daimones (spirits) of the Lamos river. They were set by Zeus to guard the infant Dionysos, protecting him from the machinations of Hera, but the enraged goddess transformed them into ox-horned Centaurs. The Lamian Pheres later accompanied Dionysos in his campaign against the Indians.\n\nThe centaur's half-human, half-horse composition has led many writers to treat them as liminal beings, caught between the two natures they embody in contrasting myths; they are both the embodiment of untamed nature, as in their battle with the Lapiths (their kin), and conversely, teachers like Chiron.\n Question: Given this reference text on the creation of centaurs, where did the mythology originate?", "output": "A centaur is a creature from Greek mythology according to this paragraph. It can be inferred because numerous Greek gods were referenced in the passage."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Justice League Dark is a 2017 American adult animated science fantasy superhero film produced by Warner Bros. Animation and distributed by Warner Home Video. Featuring the DC Comics team of the same name created by Peter Milligan and Mikel Jan\u00edn, the film is the 27th of the DC Universe Animated Original Movies and the eighth of the DC Animated Movie Universe. Unlike most installments in the DC Animated Universe Movies series, Justice League Dark features an original premise. The film stars Matt Ryan as John Constantine and Jason O'Mara as Batman, reprising their respective roles from previous media. It was released on Digital HD on January 24, 2017, and on DVD and Blu-ray on February 7.\n\nA sequel, Justice League Dark: Apokolips War, was released in May 2020.\n Question: Given a reference text about Justice League Dark, tell me who the main actors are and what roles they played.", "output": "The main actors in Justice League Dark were Matt Ryan and Jason O'Mara. In the film, Matt Ryan is John Constantine and Jason O'Mara is Batman."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jupiter's upper atmosphere is about 90% hydrogen and 10% helium by volume. Since helium atoms are more massive than hydrogen molecules, Jupiter's atmosphere is approximately 24% helium by mass. The atmosphere also contains trace amounts of methane, water vapour, ammonia, and silicon-based compounds. There are also fractional amounts of carbon, ethane, hydrogen sulfide, neon, oxygen, phosphine, and sulfur. The outermost layer of the atmosphere contains crystals of frozen ammonia. Through infrared and ultraviolet measurements, trace amounts of benzene and other hydrocarbons have also been found. The interior of Jupiter contains denser materials\u2014by mass it is roughly 71% hydrogen, 24% helium, and 5% other elements.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the planet Jupiter, tell me what it is made of.", "output": "The planet Jupiter is referred to as a gas giant, because the matter that makes it up is almost entirely in gaseous form. It has no solid form like many of the other planets in our solar system. Jupiter consists primarily of hydrogen and helium. By volume, the hydrogen distribution ranges from 71-90%, while we will find anywhere from 10-24% helium. There are also traces of other materials to be found. These include methane, water vapour, ammonia, silicon-based compounds and others."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Imperial rule by Europeans would continue until after the conclusion of World War II, when almost all remaining colonial territories gradually obtained formal independence. Independence movements in Africa gained momentum following World War II, which left the major European powers weakened. In 1951, Libya, a former Italian colony, gained independence. In 1956, Tunisia and Morocco won their independence from France. Ghana followed suit the next year (March 1957), becoming the first of the sub-Saharan colonies to be granted independence. Most of the rest of the continent became independent over the next decade.\n Question: Which sub-Saharan colony was the first to gain independence?", "output": "Ghana was the first sub-Saharan colony to gain independence."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jiang Zemin (17 August 1926 \u2013 30 November 2022) was a Chinese politician who served as general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) from 1989 to 2002, as chairman of the Central Military Commission from 1989 to 2004, and as president of China from 1993 to 2003. Jiang was paramount leader of China from 1989 to 2002. He was the core leader of the third generation of Chinese leadership, one of four core leaders alongside Mao Zedong, Deng Xiaoping and Xi Jinping.\n\nBorn in Yangzhou, Jiangsu, Jiang joined the CCP while he was in college. After the establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949, he received training at the Stalin Automobile Works in Moscow in the 1950s, later returning to Shanghai in 1962 to serve in various institutes, later being sent between 1970-1972 to Romania as part of an expert team to establish machinery manufacturing plants in the country. After 1979, he was appointed as the vice chair of two commissions by vice premier Gu Mu to oversee the newly-established special economic zones (SEZs). He became the vice minister of the newly-established Ministry of Electronics Industry and a member of the CCP Central Committee in 1982.\n\nJiang was appointed as the mayor of Shanghai in 1985, later being promoted to its Communist Party secretary, as well as a member of the CCP Politburo, in 1987. Jiang came to power unexpectedly as a compromise candidate following the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests and massacre, when he replaced Zhao Ziyang as CCP general secretary after Zhao was ousted for his support for the student movement. As the involvement of the \"Eight Elders\" in Chinese politics steadily declined, Jiang consolidated his hold on power to become the \"paramount leader\" in the country during the 1990s. Urged by Deng Xiaoping's southern tour in 1992, Jiang officially introduced the term \"socialist market economy\" in his speech during the 14th CCP National Congress held later that year, which accelerated \"opening up and reform\".\n\nUnder Jiang's leadership, China experienced substantial economic growth with the continuation of market reforms. The returning of Hong Kong from the United Kingdom in 1997 and of Macau from Portugal in 1999, and entry into the World Trade Organisation in 2001, were landmark moments of his era. China also witnessed improved relations with the outside world, while the Communist Party maintained its tight control over the state. Jiang faced criticism over human rights abuses, including the crackdown on the Falun Gong movement. His contributions to party doctrine, known as the \"Three Represents\", were written into the CCP constitution in 2002. Jiang gradually vacated his official leadership titles from 2002 to 2005, being succeeded in these roles by Hu Jintao, although he and his political faction continued to influence affairs until much later. On 30 November 2022, Jiang died from leukemia and multiple organ failure in Shanghai.\n Question: Of which generation is Jiang the core leader of China", "output": "He is the third generation of Chinese leadership"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A volleyball court is 9 m \u00d7 18 m (29.5 ft \u00d7 59.1 ft), divided into equal square halves by a net with a width of one meter (39.4 in). The top of the net is 2.43 m (7 ft 11+11\u204416 in) above the centre of the court for men's competition, and 2.24 m (7 ft 4+3\u204416 in) for women's competition, varied for veterans and junior competitions.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the dimensions of a volleyball court, what is the area of one half of a volleyball court with an explanation of the math behind the calculation.", "output": "The area of one half of a volleyball court is 81 square meters. The total area of the court is 162 square meters (9 m x 18 m). It is divided into two equal square halves of 81 square meters each (9 m x 9 m)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Due to weather conditions, peanuts are usually planted in spring. The peanut comes from a yellow flower that bends over and penetrates the soil after blooming and wilting, and the peanut starts to grow in the soil. Peanuts are harvested from late August to October, while the weather is clear. This weather allows for dry soil so that when picked, the soil does not stick to the stems and pods. The peanuts are then removed from vines and transported to a peanut shelling machine for mechanical drying. After cropping, the peanuts are delivered to warehouses for cleaning, where they are stored unshelled in silos.\n Question: Given this paragraph about planting and harvesting for peanut butter, when are peanuts typically harvested?", "output": "Peanuts are typically harvested from late August to October"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Oy Air Finland was an airline with its head office and base at Helsinki Airport in Vantaa, Finland, which was operating chartered and scheduled flights to holiday destinations, as well as aircraft lease services. The company was founded in 2002 and filed for bankruptcy in 2012.\n\nHistory\n\nBoeing 757-200 in the old livery at Kangerlussuaq Airport (2010).\n\nBoeing 757-200 in the latest livery at M\u00e1laga Airport (2012).\n\nAn ex-Air Finland Boeing 757-200 in basic Jet2 Holidays livery at Leeds Bradford International Airport (2011)\nThe airline was established in January 2002 and started flight operations on 3 April 2003. It was owned by three individuals from the aviation, finance and travel marketing industries: Harri Naivo (Chairman and Chief Financial Officer), Mika Helenius (Chief Executive Officer), and Lauri Komi. At March 2007, the company had 210 employees. On 26 June 2012, Air Finland announced that it would immediately cancel all flights and filed for bankruptcy.\n Question: How long did Air Finland operate?", "output": "They operated as a business for 10 years, between 2002 and 2012."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wakesurfing is a water sport in which a rider trails behind a boat, riding the boat's wake without being directly pulled by the boat. After getting up on the wake, typically by use of a tow rope, the wakesurfers will drop the rope, and ride the steep face below the wave's peak in a fashion reminiscent of surfing. Wakesurfers generally use special boards, designed specifically for wakes.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the description of wakesurfing, what is needed to generate the wave?", "output": "a boat"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Born in Chicago, Illinois, Brazelton initially played basketball for the Rich East High School, but transferred to the rival Rich Central High School during his senior year. He led the latter team to a championship in the Big Dipper tournament and was named as the most valuable player of the tournament.\n Question: What high school did Tyrone Brazelton go to?", "output": "Tyrone Brazelton attended Rich East High School and then transferred to Rich Central High School for his senior year."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Giovanni Dominici (c. 1355 \u2013 10 June 1419) was an Italian Catholic prelate and Dominican who became a cardinal. His ideas had a profound influence on the art of Fra Angelico who entered the order through him. But he once encountered difficulties becoming a friar due to a speech impairment that his superiors believed would rule him ineligible for both profession and the priesthood. Dominici became a noted theologian and preacher and was tireless in establishing monasteries and convents in cities such as Fiesole and Lucca.\n\nHe attempted to resign his cardinalate in 1415 during the Council of Constance after he succeeded in convincing the pope to abdicate in order to end the Western Schism. But the Council refused to accept his resignation though he had resigned from the archbishopric that he held. He spent the remainder of his life as a papal legate for Pope Martin V until he died in Buda.\n\nHe had been first named as a Blessed since 1622 though he had not been recognized as such until he was beatified on 9 April 1832.[\n Question: Given a reference text about Giovanni Dominici, when was he beatified?", "output": "Giovanni Dominici was beatified on April 9, 1832."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Oath of Leo III is a painting by the workshop of the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. The painting was part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the room that was named after The Fire in the Borgo, the Stanza dell'incendio del Borgo. In the fresco, Pope Leo III is seen during the trial on December 23 AD 800 during which he was brought face to face with the nephews of his predecessor Pope Hadrian I, who had accused him of misconduct. The assembled bishops declared that they could not judge the pope, after which Leo took an oath of purgation of his own free will.\n Question: Given the reference text, where would I be able to find The Oath of Leo III?", "output": "The Oath of Leo III, painted by Raphael, can be found in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sir Sean Connery (born Thomas Connery; 25 August 1930 \u2013 31 October 2020) was a Scottish actor. He was the first actor to portray fictional British secret agent James Bond on film, starring in seven Bond films between 1962 and 1983. Originating the role in Dr. No, Connery played Bond in six of Eon Productions' entries and made his final Bond appearance in the non-Eon-produced Never Say Never Again; if non-Eon-produced Bond movies are included, Connery shares the record for the most portrayals as James Bond with Roger Moore (with 7 apiece). Following his third appearance as Bond in Goldfinger (1964), in June 1965 Time magazine observed \"James Bond has developed into the biggest mass-cult hero of the decade\"\n Question: Who is Sean Connery?", "output": "Scottish Actor"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As a member of the 3rd Infantry Regiment and 17th Infantry Regiment, McGunnegle served in the Philippines during the Philippine\u2013American War. After receiving promotion to colonel in 1906, he commanded the 1st Infantry Regiment during service in Washington, the Philippines, and Hawaii. In 1914, he was assigned to command the recruit depot at Fort McDowell, California. He served until recaching the mandatory retirement age of 64 in June 1918. Because World War I was ongoing, McGunnegle agreed to defer retirement and remained on duty at Fort McDowell. The war ended in November 1918, and he remained in command of Fort McDowell to muster out troops as the army demobilized. He retired in July 1919.\n Question: Given this short paragraph about the life of George K. McGunnegle, how old was he when he retired and what month of the year did that happen?", "output": "George K. McGunnegle was 64 when he retired in July of 1919."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The game involves using figures mounted on rotating bars to kick a ball into the opposing goal. Table football tables can vary in size, but a typical table is about 120 centimetres (3.9 ft) long and 61 centimetres (2.00 ft) wide. The table usually contains eight rows of foos men, which are plastic, metal, wooden, or sometimes carbon-fibre figures mounted on horizontal metal bars. Each team of one or two human players controls four rows of foos men, one row each for the goalkeeper, defenders, midfield and strikers. Players manipulate the rods to control the figures, using them to hold up, pass or 'kick' the ball. Games begin when the ball is served through a hole at the side of the table, or simply placed by hand at the feet of a figure in the centre of the table. A coin toss is usually used to determine which player or team serves first. If it is not the first match or if the ball gets out of play or if the ball suddenly stops out, then the team scored last would get the serve after he scores one. The term for when the ball leaves the table or gets stopped somewhere out of the men-like figures\u2019 reach is dead ball. Expert players have been known to move balls at speeds up to 56 km/h (35 mph) in competition.\n\nThe rules prohibit \"over 360-degree shots\", or \"spinning\": using the palm of the hand to swiftly spin the bar all around, instead of using wrist strokes to kick the ball with a bar-mounted figure. Since the establishment of the International Table Soccer Federation (ITSF), the rules have become standardised in most international competitions. However, since January 2012, the annual World Championships and the World Cup have permitted two full 360-degree rotations.\n\nThe winner is determined when one team scores a predetermined number of goals, typically five, ten or eleven in competition. When playing Bonzini competitions, the target number of goals is seven and players must win by at least two clear goals.\n Question: per this description of the game of fooseball, how many full rotations are allowed in the game at the championship level?", "output": "2 360-degree rotations are allowed since January 2012."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Tampa Bay Rays are an American professional baseball team based in St. Petersburg, Florida. The Rays compete in Major League Baseball (MLB) as a member club of the American League (AL) East division. Since its inception, the team's home venue has been Tropicana Field.\n\nFollowing nearly three decades of unsuccessfully trying to gain an expansion franchise or enticing existing teams to relocate to the Tampa Bay area, an ownership group led by Vince Naimoli was approved on March 9, 1995. The team began play as the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in the 1998 Major League Baseball season.\n\nThe team's first decade of play was marked by futility; they finished in last place in the AL East in all but the 2004 season, when they finished second to last. Following the 2007 season, Stuart Sternberg, who had purchased controlling interest in the team from Vince Naimoli two years earlier, changed the team's name from \"Devil Rays\" to \"Rays\", now meaning both a manta ray and a ray of sunshine; a manta ray logo appears on the uniform sleeves while a sunburst appears on the uniform front. The 2008 season saw the Rays post their first winning season, their first AL East championship, and their first American League pennant (defeating the rival Boston Red Sox in the ALCS), though they lost to the Philadelphia Phillies in that year's World Series. Since then, the Rays have played in the postseason seven more times, winning the American League pennant again in 2020 and losing to the Los Angeles Dodgers in that year's World Series.\n\nThe Tampa Bay Rays' chief rivals are the Boston Red Sox and the New York Yankees, which also play in the AL East. Regarding the former, there have been several notable on-field incidents. The Rays also have an in-state interleague rivalry with the National League (NL)'s Miami Marlins (originally the Florida Marlins), whom they play in the Citrus Series.\n\nThrough 2022, the Rays' all-time record is 1,912\u20132,034 (.485)\n Question: Based on the reference text about the Tampa Bay Rays, what is the name of their stadium and who are their main rivals?", "output": "The name of the Tampa Bay Rays stadium is Tropicana Field and their main rivals are the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Coming in at first place is Sweden. Sweden ranks highly across the studies, coming in 5th place on the EPI, 9th for the GFI, and 4th for the lowest annual average PM2.5 concentration at 6.6 \u03bcg/m\u00b3.\n\nHowever, like most European countries Sweden\u2019s main downfall is its CO2 emissions per capita, ranking only 28th place with 4.18 tonnes (4th in Europe).\n\nSome of Sweden\u2019s highlights are that it has a perfect score in the EPI for protecting marine ecosystems and it ranks second in the GFI\u2019s CO2 emissions growth in transport sector indicator.\n Question: what is the greenest country ion the world", "output": "sweden"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Against the Cincinnati Bengals in Super Bowl LVI, Stafford and the Rams came away victorious on their home field with a final score of 23\u201320. Scoring started early in the first quarter thanks to a long drive that culminated in a Odell Beckham Jr. touchdown reception. The Bengals managed a field goal to make the score 7\u20133. Stafford then tossed another touchdown to wide receiver Cooper Kupp on the next possession to extend the lead to 13\u20133. On the first play of the second half, however, the Bengals retook the lead, 17\u201313. After field goals by both teams, the Rams trailed by a score of 20\u201316 in the fourth quarter. Stafford orchestrated a drive in the final minutes that ended with another touchdown pass to Kupp to regain the lead at 23\u201320. Overall, Stafford completed 26 of his 40 pass attempts for 283 yards, three passing touchdowns, and two interceptions as he earned his first championship ring in his first season with the Rams.\n Question: Who did Stafford throw touchdown passes to in Super Bowl LV?", "output": "The text provided does not mention information about Super Bowl LV. However, it does provide information regarding Super Bowl LVI.\n\nIn Super Bowl LVI, Stafford threw 3 touchdown passes, two to Cooper Kupp and one to Odell Beckham Jr.\n\nIn the first quarter, Stafford led a long drive that culminated in a Odell Beckham Jr. touchdown reception. Stafford later tossed a touchdown to wide receiver Cooper Kupp. In the fourth quarter, Stafford orchestrated a drive in the final minutes that ended with another touchdown pass to Kupp."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: ASML produces the photolithography machines used in the production of computer chips. In these machines, patterns are optically imaged onto a silicon wafer that is covered with a film of light-sensitive material (photoresist). This procedure is repeated dozens of times on a single wafer. The photoresist is then further processed to create the actual electronic circuits on the silicon. The optical imaging that ASML's machines deal with is used in the fabrication of nearly all integrated circuits and, as of 2011, ASML had 67 percent of the worldwide sales of lithography machines.\n\nASML's competition consisted of Ultratech, Canon and Nikon, MKS Instruments, Lam Research and Cadence Design Systems.[citation needed]\n Question: According to this passage, what percent of the lithography machine market do Ultratech, Canon and Nikon, MKS Instruments, Lam Research and Cadence Design Systems have in aggregate?", "output": "If ASML has 67 percent of the worldwide sales of lithography machines and if Ultratech, Canon and Nikon, MKS Instruments, Lam Research and Cadence Design Systems represent their sole competition, than these companies must share the remaining 33 percent of the market."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hawkeye Creek Bridge is a historic structure located in a rural area northeast of Mediapolis, Iowa, United States. The Des Moines County Board of Supervisors contracted with Clinton Bridge and Iron Works on September 23, 1909, to design and build this bridge. It is an 80-foot (24 m) span that carries traffic of a gravel road over Hawkeye Creek. The structure is a single rigid-connected Pratt through truss that is supported by concrete abutments. It basically remains in an unaltered condition. The bridge was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1998.\n Question: Where is the Hawkeye Creek Bridge located", "output": "The Hawkeye Creek Bridge is a historic structure located in a rural area northeast of Mediapolis, Iowa, United States. The Des Moines County Board of Supervisors contracted with Clinton Bridge and Iron Works on September 23, 1909, to design and build this bridge. \n\nIt is an 80-foot (24 m) span that carries traffic of a gravel road over Hawkeye Creek. The structure is a single rigid-connected Pratt through truss that is supported by concrete abutments. It basically remains in an unaltered condition. The bridge was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1998."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Thanjavur painting is a classical South Indian painting style, which was inaugurated from the town of Thanjavur (anglicized as Tanjore) in Tamil Nadu. The art form draws its immediate resources and inspiration from way back about 1600 AD, a period when the Nayakas of Thanjavur under the suzerainty of the Vijayanagara Rayas encouraged art\u2014chiefly, classical dance and music\u2014as well as literature, both in Telugu and Tamil and painting of chiefly Hindu religious subjects in temples. It is distinguished by its famous gold coating. However, it can safely be surmised that Thanjavur painting, as we know it now, originated in the Maratha court of Thanjavur (1676\u20131855).It has been recognized as a Geographical indication by the Government of India in 2007\u201308. Thanjavur paintings are characterized by rich and vivid colors, simple icon composition, glittering gold foils overlaid on delicate but extensive gesso work and inlay of glass beads and pieces or precious and semi-precious gems. In Thanjavur paintings one can see the influence of Deccani, Vijayanagar, Maratha and even European or Company styles of painting. Essentially serving as devotional icons, the subjects of most paintings are Hindu gods, goddesses, and saints. Episodes from Hindu Puranas, Sthala-puranas and other religious texts were visualized, sketched or traced and painted with the main figure or figures placed in the central section of the picture (mostly within an architecturally delineated space such as a mantapa or prabhavali) surrounded by several subsidiary figures, themes and subjects. There are also many instances when Jain, Sikh, Muslim, other religious and even secular subjects were depicted in Tanjore paintings. Thanjavur paintings are panel paintings done on wooden planks, and hence referred to as Palagai padam in local parlance. In modern times, these paintings have become souvenirs for festive occasions in South India.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Thanjavur paintings and its origins, what are the typical features of Thanjavur paintings?", "output": "Thanjavur paintings are easily discernible from the gold coating on wooden panels which form the base. They are characterized by  vivid colors, simple composition of icons along with usage of glass beads and at times precious stones. The subjects of paintings have traditionally been Hindus gods though they have evolved to depict secular subjects from other religions."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Chard or Swiss chard (/t\u0283\u0251\u02d0rd/; Beta vulgaris subsp. vulgaris, Cicla Group and Flavescens Group) is a green leafy vegetable. In the cultivars of the Flavescens Group, the leaf stalks are large and often prepared separately from the leaf blade; the Cicla Group is the leafy spinach beet. The leaf blade can be green or reddish; the leaf stalks are usually white, yellow or red.\n\nChard, like other green leafy vegetables, has highly nutritious leaves. Chard has been used in cooking for centuries, but because it is the same species as beetroot, the common names that cooks and cultures have used for chard may be confusing; it has many common names, such as silver beet, perpetual spinach, beet spinach, seakale beet, or leaf beet.\"\n Question: What color is Perpetual Spinach?", "output": "The leaf blade can be green or reddish; the leaf stalks are usually white, yellow or red."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Moha (Chinese: \u819c\u86e4; pinyin: M\u00f3 H\u00e1, pronounced [mu\u01d2.x\u01ce]), literally \"admiring toad\" or \"toad worship\", is an internet meme spoofing Jiang Zemin, former General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party and paramount leader. It originated among the netizens in mainland China and has become a subculture on the Chinese internet. According to another explanation, it comes from China's social media Baidu Tieba. In the culture, Jiang is nicknamed h\u00e1, or \"toad\", because of his supposed resemblance to a toad. Netizens who m\u00f3h\u00e1 (worship the toad) call themselves \"toad fans\", \"toad lovers\" or \"toad worshippers\" (simplified Chinese: \u86e4\u4e1d; traditional Chinese: \u86e4\u7d72), or \"mogicians\" (\u819c\u6cd5\u5e08; \u819c\u6cd5\u5e2b) which is a wordplay on m\u00f3f\u01cesh\u012b (\u9b54\u6cd5\u5e08; \u9b54\u6cd5\u5e2b, magician) in Mandarin.[note 1]\n\nAnother nickname for Jiang is \"elder\" or \"senior\" (\u957f\u8005; \u9577\u8005; Zh\u01cengzh\u011b), because he once called himself an \"elder\" or \"senior\" when he was berating Hong Kong journalist Sharon Cheung who questioned him. A video clip recording this event spread on the internet and led to the rise of the culture, which later greatly rose in popularity around 2014, when Hong Kong was experiencing a period of political instability. Initially, netizens extracted Jiang's quotes from the video and imitated his wording and tone, for parody and insult. However, as the culture developed, some imitations have taken to carrying affection toward him. The quotes for imitation have also evolved to include what he said during his leadership, and in his personal life.\n Question: What does moha mean", "output": "It means toad worship, an internet meme spoofing Jiang Zemin"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Major League Baseball (MLB) is a professional baseball organization and the oldest major professional sports league in the world.  MLB is composed of 30 teams, divided equally between the National League (NL) and the American League (AL), with 29 in the United States and 1 in Canada.\n Question: How many teams are in the MLB National League", "output": "The National League (NL) consists of 15 teams aligned in three divisions. In the NL East are the Atlanta Braves, Miami Marlins, New York Mets, Philadelphia Phillies, and Washington (D.C.) Nationals. In the NL Central are the Chicago Cubs, Cincinnati Reds, Milwaukee Brewers, Pittsburgh Pirates, and St. Louis Cardinals."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Apache Spark is an open-source unified analytics engine for large-scale data processing. Spark provides an interface for programming clusters with implicit data parallelism and fault tolerance. Originally developed at the University of California, Berkeley's AMPLab, the Spark codebase was later donated to the Apache Software Foundation, which has maintained it since.\n Question: What do you know about Apache Spark?", "output": "Apache Spark is an open-source analytics engine for large-scale data processing."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Teodoro \"Teddy\" de Villa Diaz (1 April 1963 \u2013 21 August 1988) was a Filipino musician and composer, best known as the founder and original guitarist of The Dawn.\n\nAs a composer, he co-wrote the band's first single \"Enveloped Ideas\" and their well-known hit \"Salamat\", which was released posthumously in 1989. He played guitar on the albums The Dawn (1986) and I Stand With You (1988). Aside from being a guitarist, he played keyboards as credited on The Dawn's 1986 debut album.[citation needed]\n\nAt the height of his career and at the peak of The Dawn's popularity in the late 1980s, he was stabbed to death in front of his girlfriend's house by two bystanders who were allegedly under the influence of drugs and alcohol.\n Question: Given a reference text about Teodoro \"Teddy\" de Villa Diaz, tell me how he died and how old he was when he died.", "output": "Teodoro \"Teddy\" de Villa Diaz was stabbed to death by two bystanders when he was 25 years old."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Call to Adventure\nThe hero begins in a situation of normality from which some information is received that acts as a call to head off into the unknown. According to Campbell, this region is represented by\n\na distant land, a forest, a kingdom underground, beneath the waves, or above the sky, a secret island, lofty mountaintop, or profound dream state; but it is always a place of strangely fluid and polymorphous beings, unimaginable torments, superhuman deeds, and impossible delight. The hero can go forth of their own volition to accomplish the adventure, as did Theseus when he arrived in his father's city, Athens, and heard the horrible history of the Minotaur; or they may be carried or sent abroad by some benign or malignant agent as was Odysseus, driven about the Mediterranean by the winds of the angered god, Poseidon. The adventure may begin as a mere blunder... or still, again, one may be only casually strolling when some passing phenomenon catches the wandering eye and lures one away from the frequented paths of man. Examples might be multiplied, ad infinitum, from every corner of the world.\n Question: What is one of Poseidon's many powers?", "output": "Poseidon has power to control the winds that guide ships on the seas of the Mediterranean."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Walt Disney Company, commonly known as Disney (/\u02c8d\u026azni/), is an American multinational, mass media and entertainment conglomerate that is headquartered at the Walt Disney Studios complex in Burbank, California. Disney was founded on October 16, 1923, by brothers Walt and Roy O. Disney as Disney Brothers Studio; it also operated under the names Walt Disney Studio and Walt Disney Productions before changing its name to The Walt Disney Company in 1986. Early in its existence, the company established itself as a leader in the animation industry, with the creation of the widely popular character Mickey Mouse, who first appeared in Steamboat Willie, which used synchronized sound, to become the first post-produced sound cartoon. The character would go on to become the company's mascot.\n Question: Given this paragraph, where is The Walt Disney Company headquarters?", "output": "According to this text, The Walt Disney Company is headquartered in Burbank, California."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sam McElroy (born c. 1963) is an American football coach. He served as head football coach at Tarleton State University from 2005 to 2009, compiling a record of 40\u201315.\n\nMcElroy is a 1985 graduate of Southwest Texas State University (now Texas State University), where he did not play varsity football but served as student assistant to head coach John O'Hara. Soon after graduation he became assistant coach at Corsicana High School. In 1989, he was hired by Grant Teaff to serve as graduate assistant at Baylor University. He later had short stints at Navarro College and at Alto High School, where he was named 1992 District 22-AA Coach of the Year after winning the district title and earning a state playoff berth.\n Question: Given a reference text about Sam McElroy, at what school was he the head football coach and what was his overall record there?", "output": "Sam McElroy was the head football coach of Tarleton State University and had a combined record of 40-15."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tamil is a Dravidian language natively spoken by the Tamil people of South Asia. Tamil is an official language of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu, the sovereign nations of Sri Lanka and Singapore, and the Indian Union territory of Puducherry. Tamil is also spoken by significant minorities in the four other South Indian states of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, and the Union Territory of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. It is also spoken by the Tamil diaspora found in many countries, including Malaysia, Myanmar, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States, Canada, Australia and Mauritius. Tamil is also natively spoken by Sri Lankan Moors. One of 22 scheduled languages in the Constitution of India, Tamil was the first to be classified as a classical language of India.\n Question: Where is Tamil language spoken?", "output": "Tamil is a Dravidian language natively spoken by the Tamil people of South Asia. It is the official language of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu as well as the union territory Puducherry, as well as the sovereign nations of Sri Lanka and Singapore. Tamil is also spoken by significant minorities in the four other South Indian states of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, and the Union Territory of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. It is also spoken by the Tamil diaspora found in many countries, including Malaysia, Myanmar, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States, Canada, Australia and Mauritius."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: N.V. Virgin Express S.A. was a Belgian airline created within the Virgin Group. It operated flights mainly to southern Europe from its hub at Brussels Airport. Ticket sales were mainly through the Internet. The airline merged with SN Brussels Airlines to form Brussels Airlines, which started operations on 25 March 2007. Virgin Express' head office was in Building 116 at Brussels Airport in Zaventem, Belgium, near Brussels.\n\nHistory\nVirgin Express was founded on 23 April 1996, when the Virgin Group (with chairman Richard Branson) bought the Belgian leisure airline EBA - EuroBelgian Airlines, founded by Victor Hasson and Georges Gutelman, and rebranded it Virgin Express. It also took over EBA's fleet of Boeing 737s and operated this type of aircraft from thereon. The airline soon concentrated on low-budget scheduled flights out of its Brussels hub, and became a major competitor for Sabena and later SN Brussels Airlines.\n\nIn October 2004, the Virgin Group sold its assets to SN Brussels Airlines, and both airlines were integrated into the parent holding company SN Airholding, chaired by Viscount \u00c9tienne Davignon.\n\nOn 31 March 2006, SN Brussels Airlines and Virgin Express announced their merger into a single company, named Brussels Airlines. The combined airline added long haul destinations and strengthened its position in Africa.\n Question: Given a reference text about N.V. Virgin Express S.A., tell me its main hub and when it was founded.", "output": "N.V. Virgin Express S.A. was founded on April 23, 1996 and its main hub was the Brussels Airport."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sucrose is rapidly lost during the roasting process, and may disappear entirely in darker roasts. During roasting, aromatic oils and acids weaken, changing the flavor; at 205 \u00b0C (401 \u00b0F), other oils start to develop. One of these oils, caffeol, is created at about 200 \u00b0C (392 \u00b0F), which is largely responsible for coffee's aroma and flavor. The difference of caffeine content between a light roast and a dark roast is only about 0.1%.\n Question: From the passage provided, extract the difference in caffeine between a light roast and a dark roast.", "output": "Light roasts and dark roasts differ in caffeine content by about 0.1%."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: By 1927, Fleming had been investigating the properties of staphylococci. He was already well known from his earlier work, and had developed a reputation as a brilliant researcher. In 1928, he studied the variation of Staphylococcus aureus grown under natural condition, after the work of Joseph Warwick Bigger, who discovered that the bacterium could grow into a variety of types (strains). On 3 September 1928, Fleming returned to his laboratory having spent a holiday with his family at Suffolk. Before leaving for his holiday, he inoculated staphylococci on culture plates and left them on a bench in a corner of his laboratory. On his return, Fleming noticed that one culture was contaminated with a fungus, and that the colonies of staphylococci immediately surrounding the fungus had been destroyed, whereas other staphylococci colonies farther away were normal, famously remarking \"That's funny\". Fleming showed the contaminated culture to his former assistant Merlin Pryce, who reminded him, \"That's how you discovered lysozyme.\" He identified the mould as being from the genus Penicillium. He suspected it to be P. chrysogenum, but a colleague Charles J. La Touche identified it as P. rubrum. (It was later corrected as P. notatum and then officially accepted as P. chrysogenum; in 2011, it was resolved as P. rubens.)\nThe laboratory in which Fleming discovered and tested penicillin is preserved as the Alexander Fleming Laboratory Museum in St. Mary's Hospital, Paddington. The source of the fungal contaminant was established in 1966 as coming from La Touche's room, which was directly below Fleming's.\nFleming grew the mould in a pure culture and found that the culture broth contained an antibacterial substance. He investigated its anti-bacterial effect on many organisms, and noticed that it affected bacteria such as staphylococci and many other Gram-positive pathogens that cause scarlet fever, pneumonia, meningitis and diphtheria, but not typhoid fever or paratyphoid fever, which are caused by Gram-negative bacteria, for which he was seeking a cure at the time. It also affected Neisseria gonorrhoeae, which causes gonorrhoea, although this bacterium is Gram-negative. After some months of calling it \"mould juice\" or \"the inhibitor\", he gave the name penicillin on 7 March 1929 for the antibacterial substance present in the mould.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the experiment that led to the discovery of penicillin by Sir Alexander Fleming, tell me upon which types of bacteria penicillin has an anti-bacterial effect, and list the conditions that were necessary for the discovery of penicillin", "output": "Penicillin has an anti-bacterial effect of a number of Gram-positive bacteria including but not limited to the bacteria that cause meningitis, diptheria, pneumonia, scarlet fever.  It also acts on (Gram-positive) staphylococci bacteria which cause skin and soft tissue infections such as boils.  Penicillin was also found to have an anti-bacterial action on the Gram-negative bacteria which causes gonorrhoea.  There were a series of fortuitous circumstances which combined to allow the discovery of penicillin, one of which was Sir Alexander's choice to take a holiday with his family after leaving staphylococci bacteria in a culture in his lab before departure.  Anecdotally Sir Alexander was a little sloppy with lab hygiene which contributed to his previous discovery of lysozyme and it seems the same lack of care was partly responsible for the discovery of penicillin.  Lastly the specific location of his lab and cultures played a role - the fungal contaminant that had an anti-bacterial effect on the staphylococci culture came from Sir Alexander's colleagues lab one floor below"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Originally, in 2011, the hydropower plant was to receive 15 generating units with 350 MW nameplate capacity each, resulting in a total installed capacity of 5,250 MW with an expected power generation of 15,128 GWh per year. Its planned generation capacity was later increased to 6,000 MW, through 16 generating units with 375 MW nominal capacity each. The expected power generation was estimated at 15,692 GWh per year. In 2017, the design was again changed to add another 450 MW for a total of 6,450 MW, with a planned power generation of 16,153 GWh per year. That was achieved by upgrading 14 of the 16 generating units from 375 MW to 400 MW without changing the nominal capacity. According to a senior Ethiopian official, on 17 October 2019, the power generation capacity of the GERD is now 5,150 MW, with 13 turbines (2x 375 MW and 11x 400 MW) down from 16 turbines.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the grand Ethiopian renaissance dam, what is the expected power generation on the latest design.", "output": "The new design developed in 2017 has a planned power generation of 16,153 GWh/year using 16  hydropower generating units."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mar-a-Lago was built for businesswoman and socialite Marjorie Merriweather Post, former owner of General Foods Corporation, between the years 1924 to 1927. At the time of her death in 1973, Post bequeathed the property to the National Park Service, hoping it could be used for state visits or as a Winter White House, but because the costs of maintaining the property exceeded the funds provided by Post, and because it was difficult to secure the facility (as it is located in the flight path of Palm Beach Airport), the property was returned to the Post Foundation by an act of Congress in 1981.\n Question: When was Mar-a-Lago built?", "output": "Mar-a-Lago was built between the years 1924 to 1927."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The appearance of a pickleball court, and the manner of play, resembles tennis, but the court is the size of a doubles badminton court, less than a third the size of a tennis court. Court lines and rules are specific to pickleball and include two 7-foot areas (2.1 m) on either side of the net known as the non-volley zones, where the ball cannot be hit with the paddle unless the ball bounces first. The official rules specify side-out scoring, where only the serving team can score a point. All serves are made with an underhand stroke. The hard plastic ball used in pickleball produces significantly less bounce than softer flexible balls, such as a tennis ball. The minimal bounce combined with the non-volley zone and underhand serve give the game dynamic pace and strategy ranging from soft dink shots that stay within the two non-volley zones to powerful drive shots and overhead smash shots. To minimize any advantage the serving or receiving side might have at the beginning of the game, the ball must bounce once on each side of the net before either team may volley the ball, which is to hit the ball in the air before it bounces.\n Question: Given this paragraph, how big are the non-volley zones in pickleball and where are they located?", "output": "7-foot areas on either side of the net known"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Luga\u0219u de Jos (Hungarian: Als\u00f3lugos, Slovak: Luga\u0161e) is a commune in Bihor County, Cri\u0219ana, Romania with a population of 3,580 people. It is composed of three villages: Luga\u0219u de Jos, Luga\u0219u de Sus (Fels\u0151lugos) and Urvind (\u00d6rv\u00e9nd).\n Question: Where is Luga\u0219u de Jos", "output": "Luga\u0219u de Jos is a commune in Bihor County, Cri\u0219ana, Romania with a population of 3,580 people. It is composed of three villages: Luga\u0219u de Jos, Luga\u0219u de Sus (Felsolugos) and Urvind (Oervend)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Smuggler Cove Shell Midden (Smithsonian trinomial: 35TI46) is an archeological site located in Oswald West State Park near Neahkahnie Beach, Oregon, United States. First documented by archeologists in 1976, the midden has been found to contain remains of mussels, barnacles, and chiton to a depth of approximately 30 centimeters (12 in). Radiocarbon dating of a single sample of shell debris indicates that the Smuggler Cove campsite was occupied around 1660 CE, approximately the same date as the supposed wreck of a European ship at nearby Nehalem Spit, suggesting the site may preserve information from both before and after first contact between local people and Europeans. The site has been heavily damaged by construction of recreational facilities and coastal erosion, but a significant portion remains with potential to contribute to future research. Data generated from the site may help answer questions related to environmental change in the Oregon Coast region, settlement and subsistence patterns, emergence of ethnographic patterns among coastal people, the change in cultural patterns from before to after contact with European Americans, and other topics.\n Question: Where is Smuggler Cove Shell Midden located?", "output": "Smuggler Cove shell Midden is located in Oswald West State Park near Neahkahnie Beach in Oregon, United States."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Marie Salomea Sk\u0142odowska\u2013Curie (/\u02c8kj\u028a\u0259ri/ KURE-ee, French pronunciation: \u200b[ma\u0281i ky\u0281i], Polish pronunciation: [\u02c8marja skw\u0254\u02c8d\u0254fska k\u02b2i\u02c8ri]; born Maria Salomea Sk\u0142odowska, Polish: [\u02c8marja sal\u0254\u02c8m\u025ba skw\u0254\u02c8d\u0254fska]; 7 November 1867 \u2013 4 July 1934) was a Polish and naturalized-French physicist and chemist who conducted pioneering research on radioactivity. She was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize, the first person to win a Nobel Prize twice, and the only person to win a Nobel Prize in two scientific fields. Her husband, Pierre Curie, was a co-winner of her first Nobel Prize, making them the first-ever married couple to win the Nobel Prize and launching the Curie family legacy of five Nobel Prizes. She was, in 1906, the first woman to become a professor at the University of Paris.\n Question: Who was the first couple to win the Nobel prize?", "output": "Marie Curie and Pierre Curie are the first couple to win the Nobel prize."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: S26 is a line on the Berlin S-Bahn. It runs from Teltow in the district (Kreis) of Potsdam-Mittelmark via S\u00fcdkreuz, through the Berlin Nord-S\u00fcd Tunnel with a stop at Friedrichstra\u00dfe, and ends in Waidmannslust in the borough of Reinickendorf. On weekends the S26 runs from Teltow to Potsdamer Platz.\n\nTrains on this line run every 20 minutes. This interval is in sections shortened to a 10-minute interval by the S25. There is no night service on this line.\n Question: Given a reference text about S26, tell me where it begins and ends.", "output": "S26 begins in Tetlow and ends in Waidmannslust."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 1977 Tournament Players Championship was a golf tournament in Florida on the PGA Tour, held March 17\u201320 at Sawgrass Country Club in Ponte Vedra Beach, southeast of Jacksonville. The fourth Tournament Players Championship, it was the first of five consecutive at Sawgrass, which had agreed a multi-year with the PGA Tour in 1976.\n\nMark Hayes was the champion in windy conditions at 289 (+1), two strokes ahead of runner-up Mike McCullough. McCullough and Tom Watson were the co-leaders after the third round, with Hayes a stroke back. Defending champion Jack Nicklaus finished four strokes back, in a tie for fifth place.\n\nBob Menne set the tour's 72-hole record for fewest putts with 99, but tied for 47th at 303 (+15). The record had been 102 putts, by Bert Yancey in 1966 at his victory in the final Portland Open Invitational.\n Question: Given this information about the players championship tournament, what were the weather conditions on March 20th 1977?", "output": "It was windy"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 2010, his third year as head coach, Stevens broke the NCAA record for most wins in a coach's first three years, exceeding the previous record by eight wins. In the NCAA Tournament, Stevens coached Butler to the first Final Four in school history, while also becoming the second-youngest head coach to make an NCAA National Championship game, losing 61\u201359 to Duke. With the following season's team also making the Final Four, Stevens became the youngest coach to go to two Final Fours. Stevens coached the Bulldogs in their second consecutive national championship game on April 4, 2011, where the team again lost, this time to the Connecticut Huskies. Stevens was regularly named a finalist for Horizon League Coach of the Year award, winning twice, and was also a nominee for both the Hugh Durham Award and Jim Phelan Award in every year of his college career.\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brad_Stevens\n Question: According to this paragraph, what records did Stevens break as a basketball coach?", "output": "According to this paragraph, Stevens has the most wins as an NCAA coach in his first three years and took Butler to its first Final Four in the history of the school. He was also the youngest men's college basketball coach ever to take his team to the NCAA championship game and to two consecutive Final Fours."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Today, the most popular method for training multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs) is back-propagation. The terminology \"back-propagating errors\" was introduced in 1962 by Frank Rosenblatt, but he did not know how to implement this, although Henry J. Kelley had a continuous precursor of backpropagation already in 1960 in the context of control theory. Modern backpropagation is actually Seppo Linnainmaa's general reverse mode of automatic differentiation (1970) for discrete connected networks of nested differentiable functions. It is an efficient application of the chain rule (derived by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz in 1673) to networks of differentiable nodes. In 1982, Paul Werbos applied backpropagation to MLPs in the way that has become standard. In 1985, David E. Rumelhart et al. published an experimental analysis of the technique. Many improvements have been implemented in subsequent decades.\n\nDuring backpropagation, the output values are compared with the correct answer to compute the value of some predefined error-function. The error is then fed back through the network. Using this information, the algorithm adjusts the weights of each connection in order to reduce the value of the error function by some small amount. After repeating this process for a sufficiently large number of training cycles, the network will usually converge to some state where the error of the calculations is small. In this case, one would say that the network has learned a certain target function. To adjust weights properly, one applies a general method for non-linear optimization that is called gradient descent, due to Augustin-Louis Cauchy, who first suggested it in 1847. For this, the network calculates the derivative of the error function with respect to the network weights, and changes the weights such that the error decreases (thus going downhill on the surface of the error function). For this reason, back-propagation can only be applied on networks with differentiable activation functions.\n Question: given the following text, tell me the most popular method for training multi-layer perceptrons today and explain how it works", "output": "Today, the most popular method for training multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs) is back-propagation. During backpropagation, the output values are compared with the correct answer to compute the value of some predefined error-function. The error is then fed back through the network. Using this information, the algorithm adjusts the weights of each connection in order to reduce the value of the error function by a small amount. After repeating this process for a sufficiently large number of training cycles, the network will usually converge to a state where the error of the calculations is small. In this case, one would say that the network has learned a certain target function"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Kwahu Plateau is a 260 km (160 mi) long plateau in southern Ghana. It consists of the uplifted southern edge of the Volta River Basin. It forms the main watershed of Ghana, separating rivers in the Volta River system from rivers in the western half of Ghana which flows into the Atlantic Ocean (Birim, Pra, Ankobra). The plateau has an average elevation of 1,500 feet and its highest point is Mount Akmawa at 2,586 feet. The plateau is dissected by several valleys and is marked by towering peaks. To the south it borders dense forest country, which it shields from the harmattan winds of the interior. Cacao cultivation has been introduced in the west, through which traditional trade routes lead to the Atlantic; vegetable cultivation is stressed in the eastern sector. The largest and most important towns on the Kwahu Plateau are Wenchi, Mampong, Mpraeso, and Abetifi.[1\n Question: Given a reference text about the Kwahu Plateau, tell me its average and highest elevations.", "output": "The average and highest elevations of the Kwahu Plateau are 1,500 feet and 2,587 feet, respectively."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The land battle took place over about 81 days beginning on 1 April 1945. The first Americans ashore were soldiers of the 77th Infantry Division who landed in the Kerama Islands, 15 mi (24 km) west of Okinawa on 26 March. Subsidiary landings followed, and the Kerama group was secured over the next five days. In these preliminary operations, the 77th Infantry Division suffered 27 dead and 81 wounded, while the Japanese dead and captured numbered over 650. The operation provided a protected anchorage for the fleet and eliminated the threat from suicide boats.\n Question: Given this reference about the Battle of Okinawa during WW2, what was the difference in between the US (77th Infantry Division) and the Japanese casualties and wounded?", "output": "The difference was about 542"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Anachemmis sober is a species of false wolf spiders & wandering spiders in the family Zoropsidae. It is found in the United States.\n Question: What specie is the Anachemmis sober?", "output": "Anachemmis sober is part of the family of spiders of the species of false wolf."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: T\u00fcmmler was born in Thorn, West-Prussia, now Toru\u0144, Poland. He entered the 1968 Olympics as the reigning European Champion. The 1500 m final was run at a fast pace and at the start of the last lap the eventual Olympic Champion Kipchoge Keino had already established a substantial lead. T\u00fcmmler and his countryman Harald Norpoth were in second and third place but were outsprinted by the world-record holder Jim Ryun on the last lap.\n Question: Given the reference text about Bodo T\u00fcmmler, who was he?", "output": "Bodo T\u00fcmmler is a middle-distance runner who was born in Thorn, West-Prussia (now Poland)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Diversity is believed to bring substantial benefits such as better decision making and improved problem solving, greater creativity and innovation, which leads to enhanced product development, and more successful marketing to different types of customers\n Question: Why is prioritizing diversity hiring in an organization important?", "output": "Diversity drives creativity, innovation, and personal growth."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Racial categories have historically been used as a way to enable an oppressive figure or group to discriminate against other groups or individuals which were seen as different from that of the oppressor. In nineteenth and early twentieth century Europe, artwork was a common form of racialization which targeted countries in the Middle East and Asia. The artwork, predominantly paintings, were portrayed in order to instill prejudice in the Western populations through sexualizing and manipulating images. One of the most prominent examples of Orientalist work in art is a piece by Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix titled Women of Algiers in their Apartment. Dating back to 1834, it portrays three women resting in a harem in exotic clothing while an African woman is dressed in plain clothing, depicting her role as a servant. Fine textiles, hookahs, and other paraphernalia adorn the room, which represents a European fantasy of an exotic scene. Attempts to portray these cultures as strange, foreign and exotic through Orientalism led to intolerance towards the Arab and Asian communities in Europe and the United States. Others argue that Delacroix, who travelled in North Africa sketching extensively, was depicting a realistic scene of the era based on his first-hand knowledge and experience. In such an interpretation the clothing, for example, is consistent with the times, as Arab North Africans dressed differently from Europeans, and kept black slaves who would not have been treated as equals.\n Question: How was art used for manipulative purpose in racial discuss in the 20th century?", "output": "In the 19th to 20th century, Europeans commonly use artworks to portray prejudice towards Middle Eastern and Asian people."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Upon independence an overwhelming majority of Africans lived in extreme poverty. The continent suffered from the lack of infrastructural or industrial development under colonial rule, along with political instability. With limited financial resources or access to global markets, relatively stable countries such as Kenya still experienced only very slow economic development. Only a handful of African countries succeeded in obtaining rapid economic growth prior to 1990. Exceptions include Libya and Equatorial Guinea, both of which possess large oil reserves.\n Question: What enabled Libya to obtain rapid economic growth prior to 1990?", "output": "Libya possessed large oil reserves enabling it to experience rapid economic growth."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Damascus (/d\u0259\u02c8m\u00e6sk\u0259s/ d\u0259-MASS-k\u0259s, UK also /d\u0259\u02c8m\u0251\u02d0sk\u0259s/ d\u0259-MAH-sk\u0259s; Arabic: \u062f\u0645\u0634\u0642\u200e, romanized: Dimashq, IPA: [di\u02c8ma\u0283q]) is the capital of Syria, the oldest capital in the world and, according to some, the fourth holiest city in Islam. Known colloquially in Syria as a\u0161-\u0160\u0101m (\u0627\u0644\u0634\u064e\u0651\u0627\u0645\u200e) and dubbed, poetically, the \"City of Jasmine\" (\u0645\u064e\u062f\u0650\u064a\u0646\u064e\u0629\u064f \u0627\u0644\u0652\u064a\u064e\u0627\u0633\u0652\u0645\u0650\u064a\u0646\u0650\u200e Mad\u012bnat al-Y\u0101sm\u012bn), Damascus is a major cultural center of the Levant and the Arab world.\n Question: What's the oldest capital in the world?", "output": "Damascus"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: David Leatherbarrow is Professor of Architecture and Chair of the Graduate Group in Architecture at the University of Pennsylvania School of Design, Philadelphia, where he has taught since 1984. He received his B.Arch. from the University of Kentucky and holds a Ph.D. in Art from the University of Essex. He has also taught in England, at Cambridge University and the University of Westminster (formerly the Polytechnic of Central London).\n Question: Where did David Leatherbarrow receive his PhD from?", "output": "University of Essex"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Horsfieldia nervosa is a species of plant in the family Myristicaceae. It is a tree endemic to Borneo where it is confined to Sarawak.\n Question: Is Horsfieldia nervos a plant or animal?", "output": "plant"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Divine Child High School, commonly known as Divine Child (DC), is a private, Roman Catholic, college-preparatory, parish high school in Dearborn, Michigan, United States. Divine Child is a highly ranked private high school in Michigan, scoring in the top 15 percent of private schools in the State. Notably, it is the seventh-largest private high school in Michigan and the largest co-educational Catholic high school in the State.\n Question: Is Divine Child High School a private or public school?", "output": "private school"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Waterside Karori were relegated at the end of the 1990 season, to be replaced by the winner of a play-off series between teams from the northern, central, and southern leagues (Mount Albert-Ponsonby, Nelson United, and Burndale United respectively). Nelson United won the series to gain promotion, but there is some controversy about their participation in the play-offs as they had only finished second in the central regional league, which was won by Petone.  \n\nGisborne City were relegated at the end of the 1991 season\n Question: Which team was relegated from the league at the conclusion of the 1991 Season?", "output": "Gisborne City were relegated at the end of the 1991 season."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A black hole is a region of spacetime where gravity is so strong that nothing, including light or other electromagnetic waves, has enough energy to escape its event horizon. The theory of general relativity predicts that a sufficiently compact mass can deform spacetime to form a black hole. The boundary of no escape is called the event horizon. Although it has a great effect on the fate and circumstances of an object crossing it, it has no locally detectable features according to general relativity. In many ways, a black hole acts like an ideal black body, as it reflects no light. Moreover, quantum field theory in curved spacetime predicts that event horizons emit Hawking radiation, with the same spectrum as a black body of a temperature inversely proportional to its mass. This temperature is of the order of billionths of a kelvin for stellar black holes, making it essentially impossible to observe directly.\n Question: Is black hole truly black?", "output": "According to general relativity, a black hole emits no lights at all. Thus it is 100% black by definition. However, when quantum effects are included, a black hole has finite temperature,  emitting lights called Hawking radiation. In this sense, a black hole is not truly black."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: George Watson Buck (1789\u20131854) was the engineer of the Montgomeryshire Canal in the early 19th century, and was responsible for the unique lock paddle design.\n\nHe was later resident engineer during the building of the London and Birmingham Railway, and also designed Stockport Viaduct and the Dane Valley Viaduct on the Manchester and Birmingham Railway.\n\nEarly life\nBuck was born on 1 April 1789 at Stoke Holy Cross, near Norwich. His parents were Quakers and sent him, with his two brothers, to the Quaker School at Ackworth, West Yorkshire. With his schooling completed, his father placed him with a wholesaler at Tower Hill, London, as he wanted him to be involved in trade, but the position did not suit Buck, and so he looked for something else. Around 1807, the East London Waterworks Company were building Old Ford pumping station, which had been designed by Ralph Walker, and Buck managed to secure a job there. When the job was finished, Walker moved on to Farlington, to work on a water supply scheme for Portsmouth and Gosport. The scheme had been authorised by an Act of Parliament in 1809, and Buck went to work as resident engineer, reporting to Walker. The scheme suffered from an intermittent water supply, as did a competing scheme engineered by William Nicholson.\n Question: Given a reference text about George Watson Buck, tell me where he went to Quaker School and where he got a job in 1807.", "output": "George Watson Buck went to Quaker School at Ackworth, West Yorkshire and got a job at the East London Waterworks Company in 1807."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Cloquet fire was an immense forest fire in northern Minnesota, United States in October 1918, caused by sparks on the local railroads and dry conditions. The fire left much of western Carlton County devastated, mostly affecting Moose Lake, Cloquet, and Kettle River. Cloquet was hit the hardest by the fires. It was the worst natural disaster in Minnesota history in terms of the number of casualties in a single day. In total, 453 people died and 52,000 people were injured or displaced, 38 communities were destroyed, 250,000 acres (100,000 ha) were burned, and $73 million ($1.315 billion in 2023 United States dollars) in property damage was suffered. Thirteen million dollars in federal aid were disbursed.\n Question: How many people died in the Cloquet fire of Illinois according to the text?", "output": "453 people died in the Cloquet fire that occurred in northern Minnesota, United States in October 1918.\n\nIn addition to the 453 people that died, 52,000 people were injured or displaced, 38 communities were destroyed, 250,000 acres (100,000 ha) were burned, and $73 million ($1.315 billion in 2023 United States dollars) in property damage was suffered."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Western States Trail Ride was first completed on foot by seven soldiers from Fort Riley, Kansas during the 1972 event, proving that the mountain course could be marched in less than two days. In 1974 Gordy Ainsleigh was the first to run it in under 24 hours. Ainsleigh had finished the Western States Trail Ride (Tevis Cup) in 1971 and 1972 on horseback, but in 1973 his new horse was pulled with lameness at the 29-mile checkpoint. In 1974, with the inspiration and encouragement of Drucilla Barner, the first woman to win the Tevis Cup and Secretary of the Western States Trail Foundation, Gordy joined the horses of the Western States Trail Ride to see if he could complete the course on foot in under 24 hours. Twenty-three hours and forty-two minutes later Gordy arrived in Auburn, proving that a runner could cover the Western States trail in a day. However, he did not run 100 miles. The course was at most 89 miles until 1980 when it was extended to 93.5 miles and in 1985 finally to 100 miles. Running 100 miles in a day was nothing new. About 1,000 runners worldwide had run or walked 100 miles in a day prior to 1974 on tracks, roads, and trails.\n Question: Given this paragraph, who was the first person to run the Western States 100 in under 24 hours?", "output": "In 1974 Gordy Ainsleigh was the first to run it in under 24 hours."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Bobcaygeon Independent was the weekly community newspaper in Bobcaygeon, Ontario, Canada. It was established in 1869. Ownership changed hands many times over the years, until it was purchased along with then owner, Citizens Communication Group, in 2000 by Metroland Publishing.\n\nThe Independent covered everything from community events, school issues & family milestones to local crimes and tragedies. During ownership by the Citizens Communication Group, the Bobcaygeon and Fenelon news teams worked closely together, and from time to time, some stories of general interest would run simultaneously in the Independent and its sister paper the Fenelon Falls Gazette. During ownership by Metroland Publishing, a similar news style was used with common pages in both Bobcaygeon and Fenelon papers, and in the Lindsay This Week newspaper.\n\nThe paper was officially incorporated into Kawartha Lakes This Week in late 2004 in keeping with the amalgamation of Lindsay, Bobcaygeon and Fenelon Falls into the City of Kawartha Lakes.\n\nToday, back issues are available at the Bobcaygeon Public Library for viewing on Microfiche, as far back as the first issue in 1869.\n\nAlthough the paper had ceased publication in 2004, the website Amazon.com still offers subscriptions.\n Question: Given a refrence text about The Bobcaygeon Independent, tell me when it was established and when it ceased publication.", "output": "The Bobcaygeon Independent was established in 1869 and ceased publication in 2004."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A few scholars give the start of the Golden Age as 711\u2013718, the Muslim conquest of Iberia.\n Question: When did the golden age for Jewish culture start and where was it?", "output": "The golden age for jewish culture started somewhere around 711-718 and it was in Spain."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Macroglossum insipida, the hermit hummingbird hawkmoth, is a moth of the family Sphingidae. It was described by Arthur Gardiner Butler in 1875.\n Question: Was the hermit hummingbird hawkmoth first described in the 18th century or the 19th century?", "output": "The hermit hummingbird hawkmoth was first described in 1875, which is in the 19th century."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Schauspielhaus Z\u00fcrich (English: Z\u00fcrich playhouse) is one of the most prominent and important[citation needed] theatres in the German-speaking world. It is also known as \"Pfauenb\u00fchne\" (Peacock Stage). The large theatre has 750 seats. The Schauspielhaus also operates three stages in the Schiffbau in the western part of Z\u00fcrich, the Schiffbau/Halle (400 seats), the Schiffbau/Box (up to 200 seats) and the Schiffbau/Matchbox (80 seats).\n Question: Given this paragraph, show me how to calculate how many total patrons can be served by all of the Schauspielhaus theaters?", "output": "1430 total patrons can be served. There are 750 seats in Schauspielhaus Z\u00fcrich, 400 in the Schiffbau/Halle, 200 in the Schiffbau/Box and 80 in the Schiffbau/Matchbox. This totals to 750 + 400 + 200 + 80 = 1430 seats. Each patron requires one seat"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Dartmouth Workshop 1956: the birth of AI\nThe Dartmouth Workshop of 1956 was organized by Marvin Minsky, John McCarthy and two senior scientists: Claude Shannon and Nathan Rochester of IBM. The proposal for the conference included this assertion: \"every aspect of learning or any other feature of intelligence can be so precisely described that a machine can be made to simulate it\". The participants included Ray Solomonoff, Oliver Selfridge, Trenchard More, Arthur Samuel, Allen Newell and Herbert A. Simon, all of whom would create important programs during the first decades of AI research. At the workshop Newell and Simon debuted the \"Logic Theorist\" and McCarthy persuaded the attendees to accept \"Artificial Intelligence\" as the name of the field. The 1956 Dartmouth workshop was the moment that AI gained its name, its mission, its first success and its major players, and is widely considered the birth of AI. The term \"Artificial Intelligence\" was chosen by McCarthy to avoid associations with cybernetics and connections with the influential cyberneticist Norbert Wiener.\n Question: When and where was the field of AI officially born?", "output": "The field of AI was officially born in 1956 during a workshop organised at Dartmouth College"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Gioia del Colle (pronounced [\u02c8d\u0292\u0254\u02d0ja del \u02c8k\u0254lle]; Barese: Sci\u00f2) is a town and comune of the Metropolitan City of Bari, Apulia, southern Italy. The town is located on the Murge plateau at 360 metres (1,180 ft) above sea level, between the Adriatic and Ionian Seas.\n\nPhysical geography\nTerritory\nGioia del Colle is on the top of a hill at 360 m a.s.l. It is located in the southern part of the Murge, in the \"Sella di Gioia del Colle\". It is between the North-West Murge and the South-West Murge and the Adriatic Sea and the Ionian Sea. The municipal area has an area of 206.48 km\u00b2 and it reaches a maximum altitude of 435 m a.s.l. and a minimum of 296 m a.s.l. Its area borders to the North-West with Acquaviva delle Fonti, to the North with Sammichele di Bari, to the North-East with Turi, to the East with Putignano and Noci, to the South-East with Mottola, to the South with Castellaneta, to the South-West with Laterza and to the West with Santeramo in Colle.\n\nGioia del Colle's orography\nThe landscape is characterized by large wooded areas, in which the Macedonian oaks dominate, more than the downy oak. In particular the Bosco Romanazzi and Serra Capece constitute the most conspicuous part of the wooded area of Gioia del Colle and they extend from Mount Sannace archaeological area to the provincial road that leads to Noci.\n\nThe western part of the area is part of the North-West Murge, with isoipse that exceed 400 m a.s.l. towards Santeramo and Laterza, while the Eastern one is part of the South-East Murge, with isoipse over 400 m a.s.l. towards Noci. In the middle, on the contrary, there is a depression (saddle) with an average altitude of 340 m a.s.l., interrupted only by the 360-meter hill on which the city lies.\n\nClimate\nGioia del Colle's climate is mediterranean (K\u00f6ppen Csa), but it has peaks of continentality due to the altitude and the distance from the sea. Temperature varies between \u22122 e +12 \u00b0C in winter, while it varies between +18 e +35 \u00b0C with a high percentage of humidity in summer. Annual rainfall is around 600 mm. It often snows, about once a year, especially if there is cold air of Balkan origin.\n Question: Heres a summary of Gioia Del Colle, a town in Italy that I will be traveling to, how should I pack?", "output": "The climate is mild, and does not go below freezing by much in the winter with tropical weather summers.  Pack for light layers, and adjust for the time of year."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Istv\u00e1n Szalay (22 March 1944 \u2013 1 September 2022) was a Hungarian mathematician and politician. A member of the Hungarian Socialist Party, he served in the National Assembly from 1998 to 2002. Prior to that, he was mayor of Szeged from 1994 to 1998.\n\nSzalay died on 1 September 2022, at the age of 78.\n Question: Who is Istv\u00e1n Szalay?", "output": "Istv\u00e1n Szalay was a Hungarian mathematician and politician."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A chemical structure determination includes a chemist's specifying the molecular geometry and, when feasible and necessary, the electronic structure of the target molecule or other solid. Molecular geometry refers to the spatial arrangement of atoms in a molecule and the chemical bonds that hold the atoms together and can be represented using structural formulae and by molecular models; complete electronic structure descriptions include specifying the occupation of a molecule's molecular orbitals. Structure determination can be applied to a range of targets from very simple molecules (e.g., diatomic oxygen or nitrogen) to very complex ones (e.g., such as protein or DNA).\n Question: What is a chemical structure?", "output": "A chemical structure determination includes a chemist's specifying the molecular geometry and, when feasible and necessary, the electronic structure of the target molecule or other solid."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 2021 Amstel Gold Race was a road cycling one-day race that took place on 18 April 2021 in the Netherlands. It was the 55th edition of the Amstel Gold Race and the 14th event of the 2021 UCI World Tour. Although Wout van Aert was declared to have defeated Tom Pidcock in a photofinish sprint with Maximilian Schachmann completing the podium, it was speculated that the photofinish camera had been focused on a point approximately 26.86 cm forward of the true finish line, making the true victor unclear.\n Question: Why was it unclear who won the race?", "output": "The photofinish camera was focused on a point approximately 26.86cm forward of the true finish line."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Elizabeth II (Elizabeth Alexandra Mary; 21 April 1926 \u2013 8 September 2022) was Queen of the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth realms from 6 February 1952 until her death in 2022. She was queen regnant of 32 sovereign states during her lifetime and was head of state of 15 realms at the time of her death. Her reign of 70 years and 214 days was the longest of any British monarch and the longest verified reign of any female monarch in history.\n Question: Who was Elizabeth II?", "output": "Elizabeth II was the queen of the United Kingdom and the longest-reigning monarch."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Life arose from the Earth's first ocean, which formed some 3.8 billion years ago. Since then, water continues to be the most abundant molecule in every organism. Water is important to life because it is an effective solvent, capable of dissolving solutes such as sodium and chloride ions or other small molecules to form an aqueous solution. Once dissolved in water, these solutes are more likely to come in contact with one another and therefore take part in chemical reactions that sustain life. In terms of its molecular structure, water is a small polar molecule with a bent shape formed by the polar covalent bonds of two hydrogen (H) atoms to one oxygen (O) atom (H2O). Because the O\u2013H bonds are polar, the oxygen atom has a slight negative charge and the two hydrogen atoms have a slight positive charge. This polar property of water allows it to attract other water molecules via hydrogen bonds, which makes water cohesive. Surface tension results from the cohesive force due to the attraction between molecules at the surface of the liquid. Water is also adhesive as it is able to adhere to the surface of any polar or charged non-water molecules. Water is denser as a liquid than it is as a solid (or ice). This unique property of water allows ice to float above liquid water such as ponds, lakes, and oceans, thereby insulating the liquid below from the cold air above. Water has the capacity to absorb energy, giving it a higher specific heat capacity than other solvents such as ethanol. Thus, a large amount of energy is needed to break the hydrogen bonds between water molecules to convert liquid water into water vapor. As a molecule, water is not completely stable as each water molecule continuously dissociates into hydrogen and hydroxyl ions before reforming into a water molecule again. In pure water, the number of hydrogen ions balances (or equals) the number of hydroxyl ions, resulting in a pH that is neutral.\n Question: Based on the following paragraph on water, what makes water cohesive.", "output": "Water is made cohesive due to its polar property which allows it to attract other water molecules via hydrogen bonds."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Succession is an American satirical black comedy-drama television series created by Jesse Armstrong. It premiered on June 3, 2018, on HBO. The series centers on the Roy family, the owners of Waystar RoyCo, a global media and entertainment conglomerate, who are fighting for control of the company amid uncertainty about the health of the family's patriarch, Logan Roy (Brian Cox). The series has been renewed for a fourth and final season, which premiered on March 26, 2023.\n Question: What is the name of the family at the centre of the TV show Succession?", "output": "Succession centres on the Roy family, the owners of Waystar RoyCo"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Heads I Win, Tails You Lose (Italian: Testa o Croce, also known as Heads or Tails) is a 1982 Italian comedy film written and directed by Nanni Loy.\n\nThe film consists in two back-to-back stories that deals with two \"taboo\" themes, the celibacy of the clergy in the episode of Renato Pozzetto and the homosexuality in the one with Nino Manfredi.\n Question: Given this paragraph, who wrote and directed Heads I Win, Tails You Lose", "output": "Based on this passage of text, Nanni Loy wrote and directed the movie Heads I Win, Tails You Lose."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Greater London's population declined in the decades after the Second World War, from an estimated peak of 8.6 million in 1939 to around 6.8 million in the 1980s. The principal ports for London moved downstream to Felixstowe and Tilbury, with the London Docklands area becoming a focus for regeneration, including the Canary Wharf development. This was born out of London's increasing role as an international financial centre in the 1980s. The Thames Barrier was completed in the 1980s to protect London against tidal surges from the North Sea.\n Question: Given this paragraph about London, give me a reason why the London Docklands became a focus for regeneration in the 1980s.", "output": "One reason why the London Docklands became a focus for regeneration in the 1980s is that London had an increasing role as an international financial centre."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: It will be the third Summer Games to be held in Australia after the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, Victoria and the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, New South Wales. It will also be the fourth Summer Games to be held in the Southern Hemisphere, after the aforementioned games in Australia and the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. This will also be the second Summer Games to be held entirely in a host country's meteorological winter, after Rio de Janeiro.\n Question: Where will the third Summer Olympic Games be held?", "output": "The third Summer Games to be held in Australia will be hosted in Brisbane, Queensland."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Another trait unique to domestic sheep as compared to wild ovines is their wide variation in color. Wild sheep are largely variations of brown hues, and variation within species is extremely limited. Colors of domestic sheep range from pure white to dark chocolate brown, and even spotted or piebald. Sheep keepers also sometimes artificially paint \"smit marks\" onto their sheep in any pattern or color for identification. Selection for easily dyeable white fleeces began early in sheep domestication, and as white wool is a dominant trait it spread quickly. However, colored sheep do appear in many modern breeds, and may even appear as a recessive trait in white flocks. While white wool is desirable for large commercial markets, there is a niche market for colored fleeces, mostly for handspinning. The nature of the fleece varies widely among the breeds, from dense and highly crimped, to long and hairlike. There is variation of wool type and quality even among members of the same flock, so wool classing is a step in the commercial processing of the fibre.\n Question: Why do sheep keepers paint their sheep?", "output": "Sheep keepers sometimes artificially paint \"smit marks\" onto their sheep in any pattern or color for identification."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Dame Jane Morris Goodall DBE (/\u02c8\u0261\u028ad\u0254\u02d0l/; born Valerie Jane Morris-Goodall on 3 April 1934), formerly Baroness Jane van Lawick-Goodall, is an English primatologist and anthropologist. She is considered the world's foremost expert on chimpanzees, after 60 years studying the social and family interactions of wild chimpanzees. Goodall first went to Gombe Stream National Park in Tanzania in 1960, where she witnessed human-like behaviours amongst chimpanzees, including armed conflict.[failed verification]\n\nShe is the founder of the Jane Goodall Institute and the Roots & Shoots programme, and she has worked extensively on conservation and animal welfare issues. As of 2022, she is on the board of the Nonhuman Rights Project. In April 2002, she was named a UN Messenger of Peace. Goodall is an honorary member of the World Future Council.\n Question: Given this reference text about Jane Goodall, tell me how old she is, and her most notable accomplishments.", "output": "Jane Goodall, 89, is a world-renown primatologist, famous for her study of chimpanzees. She has dedicated her life to conservation and animal welfare issues, and founded the Jane Goodall Institute and the Roots & Shoots programme. She was named a UN Messenger of Peace in 2002, and is an honorary member of the World Future Council."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: LIV Golf  is a professional golf tour. The name \"LIV\" refers to the Roman numerals for 54, the score if every hole on a par-72 course were birdied and the number of holes to be played at LIV events. The first LIV Golf Invitational Series event started on 9 June 2022, at the Centurion Club near London, England. The Invitational Series became the LIV Golf League in 2023.\n\nLIV Golf is financed by the Public Investment Fund, the sovereign wealth fund of Saudi Arabia.\n Question: Given a reference text about LIV Golf, tell me what \"LIV\" means, when it was started and who financed it.", "output": "LIV refers to the Roman numerals for 54. The first tournament was hosted June 2022 and s funded by the wealth fund of Saudi Arabia"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: There are usually between 20 and 22 teams, with eight riders in each. All of the stages are timed to the finish; the riders' times are compounded with their previous stage times. The rider with the lowest cumulative finishing times is the leader of the race and wears the yellow jersey. While the general classification garners the most attention, there are other contests held within the Tour: the points classification for the sprinters, the mountains classification for the climbers, young rider classification for riders under the age of 26, and the team classification, based on the first three finishers from each team on each stage. Achieving a stage win also provides prestige, often accomplished by a team's sprint specialist or a rider taking part in a breakaway.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the tour de france, how many riders are in the tour", "output": "The are approximately between 160 and 176 riders start the tour de france. Each team has 8 member riders with between 20 and 22 teams participating."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Taylor Harry Fritz (born October 28, 1997) is an American professional tennis player. He has a career-high singles ranking of world No. 5 by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP), achieved on February 27, 2023, and a doubles ranking of world No. 104, achieved on July 26, 2021. Fritz has won five ATP Tour singles titles, including a Masters 1000 title at the 2022 Indian Wells Masters. His best result in a Grand Slam tournament was reaching the quarterfinals of the 2022 Wimbledon Championships. He is currently the No. 1 American player.\n\nFritz reached his maiden ATP final in only his third career event, the 2016 Memphis Open. Only one other American, John Isner, has reached an ATP final in fewer career events. He won a junior major singles title at the 2015 US Open, and was the runner-up in junior singles at the 2015 French Open.\n Question: Given a reference text about Taylor Fritz, tell me what country he's from and his best finish at a Grand Slam tournament?", "output": "Taylor Fritz is from the United States and his best finish in a Grand Slam tournament was reaching the quarterfinals at Wimbledon in 2022."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Matilda is woken up by the wind; she looks out the window; her neighbour, Marie, is fetching flowers from the garden and then Matilda\u2019s mother is called for the telephone by Bogey, Matilda\u2019s brother. Matilda is off to Mr Bullen's for her music lesson. Her mom does not want her to go due to the strong wind, but she goes anyway. After the lesson, she goes for a walk with her brother to the esplanade. Here, the story changes from present to past narrative as Mansfield shows that the music lesson, the walk etc. all occurred in Matilda's past, and she and her brother are actually sailing away on board a ship several years down the line, that all that went before were memories.\n Question: What was the twist in this short story?", "output": "In the middle of the short story, the story changes from present to past narrative as Mansfield shows that events such as the music lesson, the walk, etc. all occurred in Matilda's past, and she and her brother are actually sailing away on board a ship several years down the line. The reader finds out that all that went before were memories."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Palm Cove is located in Far North Queensland on the Australian coast. It has a long sandy beach along most of its seafront except for the rocky headland around Buchan Point in the north of the suburb.\n Question: Where in Australia is Palm Cove located?", "output": "Palm Cove is located in Far North Queensland on the Australian coast."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: When Kennedy died in August 2009, he was the second-most senior member of the Senate (after President pro tempore Robert Byrd of West Virginia) and the third longest-serving senator of all time, behind Byrd and Strom Thurmond of South Carolina. Later that same year, he was passed by Daniel Inouye of Hawaii. Kennedy therefore held the record as the longest-serving Democratic member of Congress to solely serve as a senator until October 2021, when he was surpassed by fellow Democrat Patrick Leahy of Vermont.\n Question: Based on this passage about Ted Kennedy, at the time of his death, who were the three longest-serving senators of all time?", "output": "Based on this passage, Robert Byrd, Strom Thurmond and Kennedy were the three longest-serving senators of all time."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Sound of Music is a musical with music by Richard Rodgers, lyrics by Oscar Hammerstein II, and a book by Howard Lindsay and Russel Crouse. It is based on the 1949 memoir of Maria von Trapp, The Story of the Trapp Family Singers. Set in Austria on the eve of the Anschluss in 1938, the musical tells the story of Maria, who takes a job as governess to a large family while she decides whether to become a nun. She falls in love with the children, and eventually their widowed father, Captain von Trapp. He is ordered to accept a commission in the German navy, but he opposes the Nazis. He and Maria decide on a plan to flee Austria with the children\n Question: Whose life is the 1965 film 'The Sound of Music' based on?", "output": "It is based on the 1949 memoir of Maria von Trapp"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Magna Carta Libertatum (Medieval Latin for \"Great Charter of Freedoms\"), commonly called Magna Carta (also Magna Charta; \"Great Charter\"), is a royal charter of rights agreed to by King John of England at Runnymede, near Windsor, on 15 June 1215. First drafted by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Cardinal Stephen Langton, to make peace between the unpopular king and a group of rebel barons, it promised the protection of church rights, protection for the barons from illegal imprisonment, access to swift justice, and limitations on feudal payments to the Crown, to be implemented through a council of 25 barons. Neither side stood behind their commitments, and the charter was annulled by Pope Innocent III, leading to the First Barons' War.\n Question: Based on the paragraph below, the failure to uphold the commitments outlined in Magna Carta lead to what war?", "output": "First Barons' War"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Yu 12 was an Imperial Japanese Army transport submarine of the Yu 1 subclass of the Yu I type. Constructed for use during the latter stages of World War II, she served in the waters of the Japanese archipelago.\n\nConstruction\nIn the final two years of World War II, the Imperial Japanese Army constructed transport submarines \u2014 officially the Type 3 submergence transport vehicle and known to the Japanese Army as the Maru Yu \u2014 with which to supply its isolated island garrisons in the Pacific. Only submarines of the Yu I type were completed and saw service. The Yu I type was produced in four subclasses, each produced by a different manufacturer and differing primarily in the design of their conning towers and details of their gun armament. None carried torpedoes or had torpedo tubes. Yu 12 was a unit of the Yu 1 subclass.\n\nThe Hitachi Kasado Works (Hitachi Kasado Seisakujo) at Kudamatsu, Japan, constructed Yu 12. Records of the details of the construction of Yu 12 have not been discovered, but the earlier Yu I-type submarines were laid down and launched during the latter half of 1943 and entered service at the end of 1943 or early in 1944.\n Question: Which company constructed the Japanese submarine Yu 12?", "output": "The company that constructed the Japanese submarine Yu 12 was Hitachi Kasado Works."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bougainville Island (Tok Pisin: Bogenvil) is the main island of the Autonomous Region of Bougainville, which is part of Papua New Guinea. It was previously the main landmass in the German Empire-associated North Solomons. Its land area is 9,300 km2 (3,600 sq mi). The population of the whole province, including nearby islets such as the Carterets, is approximately 300,000 (2019 census). The highest point is Mount Balbi, on the main island, at 2,715 m (8,907 ft). The much smaller Buka Island, c.\u2009500 km2 (190 sq mi), lies to the north, across the 400\u2013500 m (1,300\u20131,600 ft) wide Buka Strait. Even though the strait is narrow, there is no bridge across it, but there is a regular ferry service between the key settlements on either side. The main airport (or airstrip) in the north is in the town of Buka.\n Question: Given this reference text about Bougainville Island, what is its land area?", "output": "Its land area is 9,300 km2 (3,600 sq mi)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Christoph Karl von Piacsek was a Hungarian officer in Habsburg military service during the French Revolutionary Wars. He was born in 1749 in Klobusics (Hungarian: Klobusic; Czech: Klobu\u0161ice), in the commune of Trencs\u00e9n, in the Kingdom of Hungary. As a Rittmeister, or captain of cavalry, in the 9th Hussar Regiment, he received the Knight's Cross of the Military Order of Maria Theresa in 1789, after combat in Tabor during Austria's wars with the Ottoman Empire, and, as a colonel, commanded the 9th Hussars, 1793\u20131797. In 1793, during the War of the First Coalition, the 9th Hussars were part of the Army of the Rhine (Austrian), and participated in the skirmishes at Offenbach, Knittelsbach, and Otterheim, and, later, at the storming of the Wissembourg line at Lauffenberg. Following this action, Piacsek, Major Baron von Szoreyny, and several other officers were honored.\n Question: When did Christoph Karl von Piacsek serve as a Hungarian officer?", "output": "Christoph Karl von Piacsek served as a Hungarian officer in Habsburg military service during the French Revolutionary Wars."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In discrete mathematics, and more specifically in graph theory, a graph is a structure amounting to a set of objects in which some pairs of the objects are in some sense \"related\". The objects correspond to mathematical abstractions called vertices (also called nodes or points) and each of the related pairs of vertices is called an edge (also called link or line). Typically, a graph is depicted in diagrammatic form as a set of dots or circles for the vertices, joined by lines or curves for the edges. Graphs are one of the objects of study in discrete mathematics.\n Question: What is a graph in graph theory?", "output": "In graph theory, a graph is a structure amounting to a set of objects in which some pairs of the objects are in some sense \"related\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The demarcation between science and pseudoscience has scientific, philosophical, and political implications. Philosophers debate the nature of science and the general criteria for drawing the line between scientific theories and pseudoscientific beliefs, but there is widespread agreement \"that creationism, astrology, homeopathy, Kirlian photography, dowsing, ufology, ancient astronaut theory, Holocaust denialism, Velikovskian catastrophism, and climate change denialism are pseudosciences.\" There are implications for health care, the use of expert testimony, and weighing environmental policies.Addressing pseudoscience is part of science education and developing scientific literacy\n Question: What is pseudoscience?", "output": "Which is not based on mainstream factual science."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The first successful password-authenticated key agreement methods were Encrypted Key Exchange methods described by Steven M. Bellovin and Michael Merritt in 1992. Although several of the first methods were flawed, the surviving and enhanced forms of EKE effectively amplify a shared password into a shared key, which can then be used for encryption and/or message authentication. The first provably-secure PAKE protocols were given in work by M. Bellare, D. Pointcheval, and P. Rogaway (Eurocrypt 2000) and V. Boyko, P. MacKenzie, and S. Patel (Eurocrypt 2000). These protocols were proven secure in the so-called random oracle model (or even stronger variants), and the first protocols proven secure under standard assumptions were those of O. Goldreich and Y. Lindell (Crypto 2001) which serves as a plausibility proof but is not efficient, and J. Katz, R. Ostrovsky, and M. Yung (Eurocrypt 2001) which is practical.\n\nThe first password-authenticated key retrieval methods were described by Ford and Kaliski in 2000.\n\nA considerable number of alternative, secure PAKE protocols were given in work by M. Bellare, D. Pointcheval, and P. Rogaway, variations, and security proofs have been proposed in this growing class of password-authenticated key agreement methods. Current standards for these methods include IETF RFC 2945, RFC 5054, RFC 5931, RFC 5998, RFC 6124, RFC 6617, RFC 6628 and RFC 6631, IEEE Std 1363.2-2008, ITU-T X.1035 and ISO-IEC 11770-4:2006.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Password-authenticated key exchange, what year were the first provably-secure protocols created?", "output": "The first provably-secure protocols for Password-authenticated key exchanges(PAKE) were presented in 2000 at \"Eurocrypt 2000\" by two groups Mihir Bellare, David Pointcheval and Phillip Rogaway, and Victor Boyko, Philip MacKenzie and Sarvar Patel."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Moore's law is the observation that the number of transistors in an integrated circuit (IC) doubles about every two years. Moore's law is an observation and projection of a historical trend. Rather than a law of physics, it is an empirical relationship linked to gains from experience in production. The observation is named after Gordon Moore, the co-founder of Fairchild Semiconductor and Intel (and former CEO of the latter), who in 1965 posited a doubling every year in the number of components per integrated circuit, and projected this rate of growth would continue for at least another decade. In 1975, looking forward to the next decade, he revised the forecast to doubling every two years, a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 41%. While Moore did not use empirical evidence in forecasting that the historical trend would continue, his prediction held since 1975 and has since become known as a \"law\". Moore's prediction has been used in the semiconductor industry to guide long-term planning and to set targets for research and development, thus functioning to some extent as a self-fulfilling prophecy. Advancements in digital electronics, such as the reduction in quality-adjusted microprocessor prices, the increase in memory capacity (RAM and flash), the improvement of sensors, and even the number and size of pixels in digital cameras, are strongly linked to Moore's law. These ongoing changes in digital electronics have been a driving force of technological and social change, productivity, and economic growth. Industry experts have not reached a consensus on exactly when Moore's law will cease to apply. Microprocessor architects report that semiconductor advancement has slowed industry-wide since around 2010, slightly below the pace predicted by Moore's law. In September 2022 Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang considered Moore's law dead, while Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger was of the opposite view.\n Question: Is Moore's law still viable?", "output": "Moore's law is the observation that the number of transistors in a circuit doubles about every two years. Through advancements in technology, Moore's law is still viable since 1975 with some experts believing the observation still holds and some seeing a slowing of Moore's observation."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jos\u00e9 Francisco Miguel Ant\u00f3nio de Mendon\u00e7a, or rather, Mendo\u00e7a (Lisbon, October 2, 1725 - Lisbon, February 11, 1808), was the fifth Patriarch of Lisbon under the name of D. Jos\u00e9 II.\n\nBiography\nHe was the son of Nuno Manuel de Mendo\u00e7a, 4th Count of Vale de Reis, and his wife, D. Leonor Maria Ant\u00f3nia de Noronha. He was the younger brother of the 5th Count and 1st Count of Azambuja, and of D. Jo\u00e3o Rafael de Mendon\u00e7a, Bishop of Porto.\n\nHe graduated in canon law, having been canon of the Patriarchal See of Lisbon, Monsignor and still principal of the same church.\n\nJos\u00e9 Mendonca succeeded D. Francisco de Lemos as rector of the University of Coimbra from 1780 to 1785. During his tenure he attempted introduce a number of reforms.\n\nIn 1786, he was appointed Patriarch of Lisbon. By 1792 he was still trying to get permission from the Real Mesa Cens\u00f3ria (Royal Censorial Court) to publish two pastoral letters. A law passed on April 5, 1768 reaffirmed the right of \"temporal sovereignty\" over the prohibition of \"pernicious books and papers\" in the interest of political defense. As the Mesa had jurisdiction over all printed materials, this included pastoral letters.\n\nPope Pius VI made him a cardinal in 1788. He died in 1808 and his body is buried in the Convent of Grace.\n Question: Given a reference text about Jos\u00e9 Francisco Miguel Ant\u00f3nio de Mendon\u00e7a, tell me when he was appointed patriarch and when he died.", "output": "Jos\u00e9 Francisco Miguel Ant\u00f3nio de Mendon\u00e7a was appointed Patriarch of Lisbon in 1786 and died in 1808."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Adobe World Headquarters is the corporate headquarters of Adobe Systems, located in San Jose, California.\n\nThe buildings are known for their green design. The West Tower is listed as an Energy Star labeled building by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. In 2006, all three towers were awarded Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certification by the United States Green Building Council for environmental sustainability.\n Question: Where is the corporate headquarters of Adobe Systems?", "output": "San Jose, California"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Humans first learned to consume the milk of other mammals regularly following the domestication of animals during the Neolithic Revolution or the development of agriculture. This development occurred independently in several global locations from as early as 9000\u20137000 BC in Mesopotamia to 3500\u20133000 BC in the Americas. People first domesticated the most important dairy animals \u2013 cattle, sheep and goats \u2013 in Southwest Asia, although domestic cattle had been independently derived from wild aurochs populations several times since. Initially animals were kept for meat, and archaeologist Andrew Sherratt has suggested that dairying, along with the exploitation of domestic animals for hair and labor, began much later in a separate secondary products revolution in the fourth millennium BC. Sherratt's model is not supported by recent findings, based on the analysis of lipid residue in prehistoric pottery, that shows that dairying was practiced in the early phases of agriculture in Southwest Asia, by at least the seventh millennium BC. From Southwest Asia domestic dairy animals spread to Europe (beginning around 7000 BC but did not reach Britain and Scandinavia until after 4000 BC), and South Asia (7000\u20135500 BC). The first farmers in central Europe and Britain milked their animals. Pastoral and pastoral nomadic economies, which rely predominantly or exclusively on domestic animals and their products rather than crop farming, were developed as European farmers moved into the Pontic\u2013Caspian steppe in the fourth millennium BC, and subsequently spread across much of the Eurasian steppe. Sheep and goats were introduced to Africa from Southwest Asia, but African cattle may have been independently domesticated around 7000\u20136000 BC.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the domestication of mammals, tell me the earliest known time period in which dairying occurred and also give me the location.", "output": "The earliest known dairying occurred between 9000-7000 BC in Mesopotamia."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Ottoman Empire, historically and colloquially the Turkish Empire, was an empire that controlled much of Southeast Europe, Western Asia, and Northern Africa between the 14th and early 20th centuries. It was founded at the end of the 13th century in northwestern Anatolia in the town of S\u00f6\u011f\u00fct (modern-day Bilecik Province) by the Turkoman tribal leader Osman I. After 1354, the Ottomans crossed into Europe and, with the conquest of the Balkans, the Ottoman beylik was transformed into a transcontinental empire. The Ottomans ended the Byzantine Empire with the conquest of Constantinople in 1453 by Mehmed the Conqueror.\n Question: Who were the Ottomans?", "output": "The Ottomans belonged to the Ottoman empire which was founded in Anatolia, a region in Turkey and over the centuries spread more vastly to become a transcontinental empire."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: he Beatles were an English rock band, formed in Liverpool in 1960, that comprised John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr. They are regarded as the most influential band of all time and were integral to the development of 1960s counterculture and popular music's recognition as an art form. Rooted in skiffle, beat and 1950s rock 'n' roll, their sound incorporated elements of classical music and traditional pop in innovative ways; the band also explored music styles ranging from folk and Indian music to psychedelia and hard rock. As pioneers in recording, songwriting and artistic presentation, the Beatles revolutionised many aspects of the music industry and were often publicised as leaders of the era's youth and sociocultural movements\n Question: Which era of counterculture were the Beatles pivotal to?", "output": "The Beatles were integral to the development of 1960s counterculture"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Listeriosis is an infectious but not contagious disease caused by the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes, far more common in domestics animals (domestic mammals and poultry), especially ruminants, than in human beings. It can also occur in feral animals\u2014among others, game animals\u2014as well as in poultry and other birds.\n\nThe causative bacterium lives in the soil and in poorly made silage, and is acquired by ingestion. It is not contagious; over the course of a 30-year observation period of sheep disease in Morocco, the disease only appeared in the late 2000s (decade) when feeding bag-ensiled corn became common.[better source needed] In Iceland, the disease is called \"silage sickness\".\n Question: Given a reference text about Listeriosis, tell me how how the bacterium is transfered into animals, and people.", "output": "Listeriosis is most often associated with animals but can also infect people and is primarily transferred by ingestion."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Leptodactylus tapiti is a species of frog in the family Leptodactylidae. It is endemic to Brazil. Its natural habitats are moist savanna, subtropical or tropical high-altitude grassland, and rivers.\n Question: Where can I find Leptodactylus tapiti?", "output": "Leptodactylus tapiti is a species of frog that are native to Brazil. Its natural habitats are moist savanna, subtropical or tropical high-altitude grassland, and rivers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Montessori classrooms for children from 2+1\u20442 or 3 to 6 years old are often called Children's Houses, after Montessori's first school, the Casa dei Bambini in Rome in 1906. A typical classroom serves 20 to 30 children in mixed-age groups, staffed by a fully trained lead teacher and assistants. Classrooms are usually outfitted with child-sized tables and chairs arranged singly or in small clusters, with classroom materials on child-height shelves throughout the room. Activities are for the most part initially presented by the teacher, after which they may be chosen more or less freely by the children as interest dictates. A teacher's role within a Montessori classroom is to guide and consult students individually by letting each child create their own learning pathway. Classroom materials usually include activities for engaging in practical skills such as pouring and spooning, washing up, scrubbing tables and sweeping. Also materials for the development of the senses, mathematical materials, language materials, music, art and cultural materials, including more science-based activities like 'sink and float', Magnetic and Non magnetic and candle and air.\n\nActivities in Children's Houses are typically hands-on, tactile materials to teach concepts. For example, to teach writing, students use sandpaper letters. These are letters created by cutting letters out of sandpaper and placing them on wooden blocks. The children then trace these letters with their fingers to learn the shape and sound of each letter. Another example is the use of bead chains to teach math concepts, specifically multiplication. Specifically for multiples of 10, there is one bead that represents one unit, a bar of ten beads put together that represents 1\u00d710, then a flat shape created by fitting 10 of the bars together to represent 10\u00d710, and a cube created by fitting 10 of the flats together to represent 10\u00d710\u00d710. These materials help build a concrete understanding of basic concepts upon which much is built in the later years.\n Question: Explain the Montessori Method of education in pre-school and kindergarten", "output": "The Montessori Method for Education in pre-school and kindergarten is a unique approach to teaching children to build self-confidence and independence. Learning takes place in Children's Houses and are fully staffed with a mixture of qualified teachers and teaching assistants who guide and consult the individual child by letting each child create their own learning pathway. Activities are introduced by the teacher, but there is no requirement for a child to complete the activity until they are ready, as what the child learns is fully guided by an individual child's interest. Classrooms are equipped with child-sized tables and chairs with learning materials on child height shelves. \nEducation covers a variety of areas, for example completing practical tasks including pouring water, washing up, cleaning tables and sweeping floors. They will have access to materials relating to mathematics, languages, music, art and culture. They are taught to learn basic concepts of mathematics and writing through a hands-on approach using tactile materials."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific tasks.\n\nProperties\nThough the term large language model has no formal definition, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more. LLMs are general purpose models which excel at a wide range of tasks, as opposed to being trained for one specific task (such as sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or mathematical reasoning). The skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable, seems to be a function of the amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design.\n\nThough trained on simple tasks along the lines of predicting the next word in a sentence, neural language models with sufficient training and parameter counts are found to capture much of the syntax and semantics of human language. In addition, large language models demonstrate considerable general knowledge about the world, and are able to \"memorize\" a great quantity of facts during training.\n\nHallucinations\nMain article: Hallucination (artificial intelligence)\nIn artificial intelligence in general, and in large language models in particular, a \"hallucination\" is a confident response that does not seem to be justified by the model's training data.\n\nEmergent abilities\n\nOn a number of natural language benchmarks involving tasks such as question answering, models perform no better than random chance until they reach a certain scale (in this case, measured by training computation), at which point their performance sharply increases. These are examples of emergent abilities.\nUnpredictable abilities that have been observed in large language models but that were not present in simpler models (and that were not explicitly designed into the model) are usually called \"emergent abilities\". Researchers note that such abilities \"cannot be predicted simply by extrapolating the performance of smaller models\". These abilities are discovered rather than programmed-in or designed, in some cases only after the LLM has been publicly deployed. Hundreds of emergent abilities have been described. Examples include multi-step arithmetic, taking college-level exams, identifying the intended meaning of a word, chain-of-thought prompting, decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet, unscrambling a word\u2019s letters, identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs.\n\nArchitecture and training\nLarge language models have most commonly used the transformer architecture, which, since 2018, has become the standard deep learning technique for sequential data (previously, recurrent architectures such as the LSTM were most common). LLMs are trained in an unsupervised manner on unannotated text. A left-to-right transformer is trained to maximize the probability assigned to the next word in the training data, given the previous context. Alternatively, an LLM may use a bidirectional transformer (as in the example of BERT), which assigns a probability distribution over words given access to both preceding and following context. In addition to the task of predicting the next word or \"filling in the blanks\", LLMs may be trained on auxiliary tasks which test their understanding of the data distribution such as Next Sentence Prediction (NSP), in which pairs of sentences are presented and the model must predict whether they appear side-by-side in the training corpus.\n\nThe earliest LLMs were trained on corpora having on the order of billions of words. The first model in OpenAI's GPT series was trained in 2018 on BookCorpus, consisting of 985 million words. In the same year, BERT was trained on a combination of BookCorpus and English Wikipedia, totalling 3.3 billion words. In the years since then, training corpora for LLMs have increased by orders of magnitude, reaching up to hundreds of billions or trillions of tokens.\n\nLLMs are computationally expensive to train. A 2020 study estimated the cost of training a 1.5 billion parameter model (1-2 orders of magnitude smaller than the state of the art at the time) at $1.6 million.\n\nA 2020 analysis found that neural language models' capability (as measured by training loss) increased smoothly in a power law relationship with number of parameters, quantity of training data, and computation used for training. These relationships were tested over a wide range of values (up to seven orders of magnitude) and no attenuation of the relationship was observed at the highest end of the range (including for network sizes up to trillions of parameters).\n\nApplication to downstream tasks\nBetween 2018 and 2020, the standard method for harnessing an LLM for a specific natural language processing (NLP) task was to fine tune the model with additional task-specific training. It has subsequently been found that more powerful LLMs such as GPT-3 can solve tasks without additional training via \"prompting\" techniques, in which the problem to be solved is presented to the model as a text prompt, possibly with some textual examples of similar problems and their solutions.\n\nFine-tuning\nMain article: Fine-tuning (machine learning)\nFine-tuning is the practice of modifying an existing pretrained language model by training it (in a supervised fashion) on a specific task (e.g. sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or part-of-speech tagging). It is a form of transfer learning. It generally involves the introduction of a new set of weights connecting the final layer of the language model to the output of the downstream task. The original weights of the language model may be \"frozen\", such that only the new layer of weights connecting them to the output are learned during training. Alternatively, the original weights may receive small updates (possibly with earlier layers frozen).\n\nPrompting\nSee also: Prompt engineering and Few-shot learning (natural language processing)\nIn the prompting paradigm, popularized by GPT-3, the problem to be solved is formulated via a text prompt, which the model must solve by providing a completion (via inference). In \"few-shot prompting\", the prompt includes a small number of examples of similar (problem, solution) pairs. For example, a sentiment analysis task of labelling the sentiment of a movie review could be prompted as follows:\n\nReview: This movie stinks.\nSentiment: negative\n\nReview: This movie is fantastic!\nSentiment:\n\nIf the model outputs \"positive\", then it has correctly solved the task. In zero-shot prompting, no solve examples are provided. An example of a zero-shot prompt for the same sentiment analysis task would be \"The sentiment associated with the movie review 'This movie is fantastic!' is\".\n\nFew-shot performance of LLMs has been shown to achieve competitive results on NLP tasks, sometimes surpassing prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Examples of such NLP tasks are translation, question answering, cloze tasks, unscrambling words, and using a novel word in a sentence. The creation and optimisation of such prompts is called prompt engineering.\n\nInstruction tuning\nInstruction tuning is a form of fine-tuning designed to facilitate more natural and accurate zero-shot prompting interactions. Given a text input, a pretrained language model will generate a completion which matches the distribution of text on which it was trained. A naive language model given the prompt \"Write an essay about the main themes of Hamlet.\" might provide a completion such as \"A late penalty of 10% per day will be applied to submissions received after March 17.\" In instruction tuning, the language model is trained on many examples of tasks formulated as natural language instructions, along with appropriate responses. Various techniques for instruction tuning have been applied in practice. OpenAI's InstructGPT protocol involves supervised fine-tuning on a dataset of human-generated (prompt, response) pairs, followed by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), in which a reward function was learned based on a dataset of human preferences. Another technique, \"self-instruct\", fine-tunes the language model on a training set of examples which are themselves generated by an LLM (bootstrapped from a small initial set of human-generated examples).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Large language models, what popular neural network architecture architecture are they based on?", "output": "The Transformer architecture."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tamazulapam del Esp\u00edritu Santo is a town and municipality in Oaxaca in south-western Mexico. The municipality is at an altitude of 2,040 meters. It is part of the Sierra Mixe district within the Sierra Norte de Oaxaca Region.\n\nThe municipality has a total population of 6,908, and the town has a population of 2,372.\n\nMunicipal President Artemio Ortiz Ricardez died on May 13, 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico. The town had been placed under quarantine after its first reported case on May 10.\n Question: Why was Tamazulapam del Esp\u00edritu Santo placed under quarantine?", "output": "Tamazulapam del Esp\u00edritu Santo was placed under quarantine due to the COVID-19 pandemic."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Agriculture encompasses crop and livestock production, aquaculture, fisheries and forestry for food and non-food products. Agriculture was the key development in the rise of sedentary human civilization, whereby farming of domesticated species created food surpluses that enabled people to live in cities. While humans started gathering grains at least 105,000 years ago, nascent farmers only began planting them around 11,500 years ago. Sheep, goats, pigs and cattle were domesticated around 10,000 years ago. Plants were independently cultivated in at least 11 regions of the world. In the twentieth century, industrial agriculture based on large-scale monocultures came to dominate agricultural output.\n Question: Based on the information below, when might people have started baking bread?", "output": "There is not enough information in the passage to determine exactly when this would have happened, but because bread requires grain, it could not have been made prior to 105,000 years ago when humans first started gathering grain."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bladder stones or uroliths are a common occurrence in animals, especially in domestic animals such as dogs and cats. Occurrence in other species, including tortoises, has been reported as well. The stones form in the urinary bladder in varying size and numbers secondary to infection, dietary influences, and genetics. Stones can form in any part of the urinary tract in dogs and cats, but unlike in humans, stones of the kidney are less common and do not often cause significant disease, although they can contribute to pyelonephritis and chronic kidney disease. Types of stones include struvite, calcium oxalate, urate, cystine, calcium phosphate, and silicate. Struvite and calcium oxalate stones are by far the most common. Bladder stones are not the same as bladder crystals but if the crystals coalesce unchecked in the bladder they can become stones.\n Question: Can animals like dog and cat get Kidney Stones ?", "output": "Yes animals like humans can get Kidney Stones. Bladder stones or uroliths are a common occurrence in animals, especially in domestic animals such as dogs and cats. Types of stones include struvite,  cystine, calcium oxalate, urate, calcium phosphate, and silicate. Struvite and calcium oxalate stones are by far the most common."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mikel Artetxe Guezuraga (born 24 September 1976) is a Spanish former road bicycle racer, who rode professionally between 1999 and 2007 for the Euskaltel\u2013Euskadi, 3 Molinos Resort and Fuerteventura\u2013Canarias teams.\n\nCareer\nHe turned professional in 1999 with Euskaltel\u2013Euskadi, where he stayed for seven seasons. In his time with Euskaltel\u2013Euskadi, Artetxe took two stages and the overall victory in the GP Jornal de Noticias in 2000, a stage victory in the 2001 Vuelta a Andaluc\u00eda and a stage victory in the 2002 Trof\u00e9u Joaquim Agostinho.\n\nAt the start of the 2006 season, Artetxe moved a division down to the newly formed 3 Molinos Resort team. Here he had the biggest wins of his career, with a stage win in the Vuelta a Asturias and the sprints classification in the Trof\u00e9u Joaquim Agostinho. With the rapid demise of 3 Molinos Resort, Artetxe moved to the newly formed Fuerteventura\u2013Canarias team for 2007.\n Question: Given a reference text about Mikel Artetxe Guezuraga, tell me when he turned professional and what his biggest wins are.", "output": "Mikel Artetxe Guezuraga turned professional in 1999 and had the biggest wins of his career in 2006 with a stage win in the Vuelta a Asturias and the sprints classification in the Trof\u00e9u Joaquim Agostinho."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Matt Eskandari attended film school at the University of Southern California. His thesis film, \"The Taking,\" won the award for Best Student Film at Screamfest. Following film school, Eskandari was selected as a contestant for the Steven Spielberg filmmaker competition On The Lot. He would go on to make his feature debut a year later with the independent film Victim released by IFC Films, starring Stacey Haiduk, and premiered at the Cannes Film Festival. The film received a theatrical release, and was distributed on IFC Midnight's Pay-per-view channel.\n\nIn 2013 Eskandari directed and produced his film titled The Gauntlet which starred Bai Ling, and Dustin Nguyen. It debuted that October at the Screamfest film festival. Filmed in Beijing, China, the movie \"follows five strangers who awake in an underground, medieval dungeon.\" The film received distribution from Lionsgate Home Entertainment following a screening at Cannes and was retitled Game of Assassins. For the film, Eskandari received several accolades, including the Best Director award from the Asians On Film Festival and the Winter Film Award for Best Feature Film. The official release on DVD and digital VOD was September 23, 2014.\n\nIn 2016, Eskandari began filming a new film he co-wrote entitled The Deep End. The film's cast included Tobin Bell, Nora-Jane Noone, and Alexandra Park. It was re-titled to 12 Feet Deep and released wide on June 20, 2017 by Mar Vista Entertainment.\n Question: Using this paragraph about Matt Eskandari, did Matt Eskandri make any films before Victim?", "output": "Matt Eskandari filmed \"The Taking\" before his feature debut with the film Victim."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 2009 L'Aquila earthquake occurred in the region of Abruzzo, in central Italy. The main shock occurred at 03:32 CEST (01:32 UTC) on 6 April 2009, and was rated 5.8 or 5.9 on the Richter magnitude scale and 6.3 on the moment magnitude scale; its epicentre was near L'Aquila, the capital of Abruzzo, which together with surrounding villages suffered the most damage. There have been several thousand foreshocks and aftershocks since December 2008, more than thirty of which had a Richter magnitude greater than 3.5.\n Question: Given the following paragraph, where did the L'Aquila earth occur?", "output": "The 2009 L'Aquila earthquake occurred in the region of Abruzzo, in central Italy."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The series began on Discovery Health Channel on November 10, 2009. Season 1 concluded on December 29, 2009, after 6 episodes. Season 2 ran from July 20, 2010, to October 19, 2010, with 8 episodes. Season 3 ran from September 1 to 29, 2011, with 6 episodes.\n Question: What channel did the series begin on?", "output": "The series began on Discover Health Channel on November 10, 2009."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: For a long time after the Olympic marathon started, there were no long-distance races, such as the marathon, for women. Although a few women, such as Stamata Revithi in 1896, had run the marathon distance, they were not included in any official results. Marie-Louise Ledru has been credited as the first woman to complete a marathon, in 1918. Violet Piercy has been credited as the first woman to be officially timed in a marathon, in 1926.\n\nArlene Pieper became the first woman to officially finish a marathon in the United States when she completed the Pikes Peak Marathon in Manitou Springs, Colorado, in 1959. Kathrine Switzer was the first woman to run the Boston Marathon \"officially\" (with a number), in 1967. However, Switzer's entry, which was accepted through an \"oversight\" in the screening process, was in \"flagrant violation of the rules\", and she was treated as an interloper once the error was discovered. Bobbi Gibb had completed the Boston race unofficially the previous year (1966), and was later recognized by the race organizers as the women's winner for that year, as well as 1967 and 1968.\n Question: What marathon did the first woman officially finish, based on the paragraph.", "output": "The first marathon that a woman officially finished was the Pikes Peak Marathon, completed by Arlene Pieper in 1959."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ibrahima Tamba (born 1 January 1967) is a Senegalese sprinter. He competed in the 200 meters at the 1988 Summer Olympics and the 1992 Summer Olympics\n Question: Who is Ibrahima Tamba?", "output": "Ibrahima Tamba is an olympic sprinter from Senegal who participated in the 88 and 92 summer olympics"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: American Samoa: territory since 1900; after the end of the Second Samoan Civil War, the Samoan Islands were divided into two regions. The U.S. took control of the eastern half of the islands. In 1900, the Treaty of Cession of Tutuila took effect. The Manu\u02bba islands became part of American Samoa in 1904, and Swains Island became part of American Samoa in 1925. Congress ratified American Samoa's treaties in 1929. For 51 years, the U.S. Navy controlled the territory. American Samoa is locally self-governing under a constitution last revised in 1967.[note 14] The first elected governor of American Samoa was in 1977, and the first non-voting member of Congress was in 1981. People born in American Samoa are U.S. nationals, but not U.S. citizens. American Samoa is technically unorganized, and its main island is Tutuila.\n\nGuam: territory since 1899, acquired at the end of the Spanish\u2013American War. Guam is the home of Naval Base Guam and Andersen Air Force Base. It was organized under the Guam Organic Act of 1950, which granted U.S. citizenship to Guamanians and gave Guam a local government. In 1968, the act was amended to permit the election of a governor.\n\nNorthern Mariana Islands: A commonwealth since 1986, the Northern Mariana Islands together with Guam were part of the Spanish Empire until 1899 when the Northern Marianas were sold to the German Empire after the Spanish\u2013American War. Beginning in 1919, they were administered by Japan as a League of Nations mandate until the islands were captured by the United States in the Battle of Saipan and Battle of Tinian (June\u2013August 1944) and the surrender of Aguigan (September 1945) during World War II. They became part of the United Nations Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (TTPI) in 1947, administered by the United States as U.N. trustee. The other constituents of the TTPI were Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands. Following failed efforts in the 1950s and 1960s to reunify Guam and the Northern Marianas, a covenant to establish the Northern Mariana Islands as a commonwealth in political union with the United States was negotiated by representatives of both political bodies; it was approved by Northern Mariana Islands voters in 1975, and came into force on March 24, 1976. In accordance with the covenant, the Northern Mariana Islands constitution partially took effect on January 9, 1978, and became fully effective on November 4, 1986. In 1986, the Northern Mariana Islands formally left U.N. trusteeship. The abbreviations \"CNMI\" and \"NMI\" are both used in the commonwealth. Most residents in the Northern Mariana Islands live on Saipan, the main island.\n\nPuerto Rico: unincorporated territory since 1899; Puerto Rico was acquired at the end of the Spanish\u2013American War, and has been a U.S. commonwealth since 1952. Since 1917, Puerto Ricans have been granted U.S. citizenship. Puerto Rico was organized under the Puerto Rico Federal Relations Act of 1950 (Public Law 600). In November 2008, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that a series of Congressional actions have had the cumulative effect of changing Puerto Rico's status from unincorporated to incorporated. The issue is proceeding through the courts, however, and the U.S. government still refers to Puerto Rico as unincorporated. A Puerto Rican attorney has called the island \"semi-sovereign\". Puerto Rico has a statehood movement, whose goal is to make the territory the 51st state. See also Political status of Puerto Rico.\n\nU.S. Virgin Islands: purchased by the U.S. from Denmark in 1917 and organized under the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands in 1954. U.S. citizenship was granted in 1927. The main islands are Saint Thomas, Saint John and Saint Croix.\n Question: Given this text, what are the oldest and newest major territories of the United States?", "output": "The United States has five major territories. Guam, American Samoa, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and U.S. Virgin Islands. Of those, the two oldest are Guam, and Puerto Rico; both being acquired in 1899 at the end of the Spanish - American War. The Northern Mariana Islands is the newest of the five major territories, joining the United States in 1986."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: George Koukou (born 25 May 1945) was acting Speaker of the National Transitional Legislative Assembly of Liberia from 17 March 2005 to January 2006. Originally from Nimba County, he now resides in the capital city of Monrovia. He is a member of the Mano ethnic group.\n\nPrior to becoming a member of the National Transitional Legislative Assembly, Koukou was a senator from Nimba County. Koukou replaced George Dweh as Speaker of the transitional legislature on 17 March 2005 after Dweh was suspended indefinitely on 14 March for spending money without proper authorization.\n\nOn 17 July 2007, Koukou was arrested along with several others, including former army chief of staff Charles Julue, for alleged participation in a coup plot against President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. He and Julu were charged with treason. Koukou claimed that he did not have the money to hire a lawyer. On 27 August, Monrovia Magistrate Court Judge Milton Taylor ruled that his court could not try Koukou because treason was above its jurisdiction, and he transferred the trial to Criminal Court \"A\".\n Question: Given a reference text about George Koukou, tell me when he was arrested and why.", "output": "George Koukou was arrested on July 17, 2007 for allegedly participating in a coup against President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Barth\u00e9lemy Hus, called Hus-Desforges (18 July 1699 in Bordeaux \u2013 1 September 1786 in Lyon, aged 63) was an 18th-century French comedian and troupe leader.\n\nThe son of ma\u00eetre \u00e0 danser  J\u00e9r\u00f4me Hus and Marguerite Pageot, called Desforges, he was the youngest member of the Hus family and with his brother Fran\u00e7ois, directed a touring company known as the \"Hus brothers troupe.\"\n\nAround 1722, he married Marie Anne Daguerre Ascorette, actress born in Namur (1709-1736). The couple had at least seven children who would be part of the troupe.\n\nOn 27 January 1750, he married in Brussels his second wife, Louise Vivier de Courtenay, descendant of the famous Courtenay family.\n\nBarth\u00e9lemy Hus-Desforges was the grandfather of musician Pierre-Louis Hus-Desforges (1773-1838).\n Question: What was Barthelemy Hus-Desforges famous for", "output": "Barthelemy Hus, called Hus-Desforges (18 July 1699 in Bordeaux \u2013 1 September 1786 in Lyon, aged 63) was an 18th-century French comedian and troupe leader.\n\nThe son of maitre a danser  Jerome Hus and Marguerite Pageot, called Desforges, he was the youngest member of the Hus family and with his brother Francois, directed a touring company known as the \"Hus brothers troupe.\"\n\nAround 1722, he married Marie Anne Daguerre Ascorette, actress born in Namur (1709-1736). The couple had at least seven children who would be part of the troupe.\n\nOn 27 January 1750, he married in Brussels his second wife, Louise Vivier de Courtenay, descendant of the famous Courtenay family.\n\nBarthelemy Hus-Desforges was the grandfather of musician Pierre-Louis Hus-Desforges (1773-1838)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Indermaur works as a marketing specialist for her husband's technical trading company and is the chief executive officer of Comate, a marketing agency.\n Question: Does Indermaur work as CTO, CEO, or CFO?", "output": "CEO"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hawaii became a unified, internationally recognized kingdom in 1810, remaining independent until American and European businessmen overthrew the monarchy in 1893; this led to annexation by the U.S. in 1898. As a strategically valuable U.S. territory, Hawaii was attacked by Japan on December 7, 1941, which brought it global and historical significance, and contributed to America's decisive entry into World War II. Hawaii is the most recent state to join the union, on August 21, 1959. In 1993, the U.S. government formally apologized for its role in the overthrow of Hawaii's government, which spurred the Hawaiian sovereignty movement.\n\nHistorically dominated by a plantation economy, Hawaii remains a major agricultural exporter due to its fertile soil and uniquely tropical climate in the U.S. Its economy has gradually diversified since the mid-20th century, with tourism and military defense becoming the two largest sectors. The state attracts tourists, surfers, and scientists with its diverse natural scenery, warm tropical climate, abundance of public beaches, oceanic surroundings, active volcanoes, and clear skies on the Big Island. Hawaii hosts the U.S. Pacific Fleet, the world's largest naval command, as well as 75,000 employees of the Defense Department.\n\nIts relative isolation results in one of the highest costs of living in the United States, and Hawaii is the third-wealthiest state.\n Question: Given this text, what is the third wealthiest state in the USA?", "output": "According to this text, Hawaii is the third wealthiest state in the United States of America."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The name \"Pantheon\" is from the Ancient Greek \"Pantheion\" meaning \"of, relating to, or common to all the gods\". Cassius Dio, a Roman senator who wrote in Greek, speculated that the name comes either from the statues of many gods placed around this building, or from the resemblance of the dome to the heavens. His uncertainty strongly suggests that \"Pantheon\" (or Pantheum) was merely a nickname, not the formal name of the building. In fact, the concept of a pantheon dedicated to all the gods is questionable. The only definite pantheon recorded earlier than Agrippa's was at Antioch in Syria, though it is only mentioned by a sixth-century source. Ziegler tried to collect evidence of pantheons, but his list consists of simple dedications \"to all the gods\" or \"to the Twelve Gods\", which are not necessarily true pantheons in the sense of a temple housing a cult that literally worships all the gods.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Roman temple known as the Pantheon, tell me whether we definitively know why the temple was called the Pantheon.", "output": "We do not know why the temple was called the Pantheon. Even Cassius Dio, a Roman senator who would have had more context by nature of living and ruling in Roman society, was only able to speculate where the name came from."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Venture capital (commonly abbreviated as VC) is a form of private equity financing that is provided by venture capital firms or funds to startups, early-stage, and emerging companies that have been deemed to have high growth potential or which have demonstrated high growth (in terms of number of employees, annual revenue, scale of operations, etc). Venture capital firms or funds invest in these early-stage companies in exchange for equity, or an ownership stake. Venture capitalists take on the risk of financing risky start-ups in the hopes that some of the companies they support will become successful. Because startups face high uncertainty, VC investments have high rates of failure. The start-ups are usually based on an innovative technology or business model and they are usually from high technology industries, such as information technology (IT), clean technology or biotechnology.\n Question: What is Venture Capital?", "output": "Venture capital firms invest in early-stage companies in exchange for equity."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Northern Colorado Bears are the athletic teams representing the University of Northern Colorado in Greeley, Colorado in intercollegiate athletics. The university sponsors seventeen teams including men and women's basketball, cross country, golf, tennis, and track and field; women's-only soccer, softball, swimming and diving, and volleyball; and men's-only baseball, football, and wrestling. The Bears compete in NCAA Division I, with the football team competing at the FCS level, and most teams are members of the Big Sky Conference. Three Northern Colorado teams have separate affiliations in sports that the Big Sky does not sponsor. The baseball team competes in the Summit League, the women's swimming and diving team is an affiliate member of the Western Athletic Conference, and the wrestling team is a member of the Big 12 Conference.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Northern Colorado Bears, tell me the different conferences their teams compete in.", "output": "The Northern Colorado Bears teams compete mostly in the Big Sky Conference. However, some teams compete in the Summit League, Western Athletic Conference, and the Big 12 Conference."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The village has a population of 1473 of which 728 are males while 745 are females as per Population Census 2011. The number of children with age 0-6 is 174 which makes up 11.81% of total population of village. Average Sex Ratio of Madaria village is 1023 which is higher than Uttar Pradesh state average of 912.\n Question: What is the male population in Madaria?", "output": "The male population in Madaria is 728."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Corsica was ruled by the Republic of Genoa from 1284 to 1755, when it seceded to become a self-proclaimed, Italian-speaking Republic. In 1768, Genoa officially ceded it to Louis XV of France as part of a pledge for the debts it had incurred by enlisting France's military help in suppressing the Corsican revolt, and as a result France went on to annex it in 1769. The future Emperor of the French, Napoleon Bonaparte, was a native Corsican, born that same year in Ajaccio: his ancestral home, Maison Bonaparte, is today a visitor attraction and museum. Because of Corsica's historical ties to Tuscany, the island has retained many Italian cultural elements and many Corsican surnames are rooted in the Italian peninsula.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Corsica, when was Napoleon Bonaparte born and where?", "output": "Napoleon Bonaparte was born in 1769, the same year that France annexed Corsica. He was born in Ajaccio, Corsica."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: It was initially scripted by screenwriter Carl Foreman, who was later replaced by Michael Wilson. Both writers had to work in secret, as they were on the Hollywood blacklist and had fled to the UK in order to continue working. As a result, Boulle, who did not speak English, was credited and received the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay; many years later, Foreman and Wilson posthumously received the Academy Award.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the movie 'The Bridge on the River Kwai', why did the writers have to work in secret?", "output": "They had to work in secret because they were on the Hollywood Blacklist for presumed involvement in the communist movement."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lake Baikal (/ba\u026a\u02c8k\u0251\u02d0l, -\u02c8k\u00e6l/, Russian: O\u0437\u0435\u0440\u043e \u0411\u0430\u0439\u043a\u0430\u043b, romanized: Ozero Baykal [\u02c8oz\u02b2\u026ar\u0259 b\u0250j\u02c8ka\u026b]) is a rift lake in Russia. It is situated in southern Siberia, between the federal subjects of Irkutsk Oblast to the northwest and the Republic of Buryatia to the southeast. With 23,615.39 km3 (5,670 cu mi) of water, Lake Baikal is the world's largest freshwater lake by volume, containing 22\u201323% of the world's fresh surface water, more than all of the North American Great Lakes combined. It is also the world's deepest lake, with a maximum depth of 1,642 metres (5,387 feet; 898 fathoms), and the world's oldest lake, at 25\u201330 million years. At 31,722 km2 (12,248 sq mi)\u2014slightly larger than Belgium\u2014Lake Baikal is the world's seventh-largest lake by surface area. It is among the world's clearest lakes.\n\nBaikal's age is estimated at 25\u201330 million years, making it the most ancient lake in geological history. It is unique among large, high-latitude lakes, as its sediments have not been scoured by overriding continental ice sheets. Russian, U.S., and Japanese cooperative studies of deep-drilling core sediments in the 1990s provide a detailed record of climatic variation over the past 6.7 million years.\n Question: What is the largest fresh water lake?", "output": "Lake Baikal, located in Russia in the southern region of Sibera is the largest and deepest fresh water lake, containing 20% of Earth's fresh surface water."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Stargate Command (abbreviated to SGC) is a top-secret military organization founded and led by the United States Air Force in conjunction with the International Oversight Advisory, tasked with operating the Stargate device and all matters pertaining to things offworld, such as threats to Earth or missions to procure new technology from extraterrestrial civilizations. It is based inside the Cheyenne Mountain Complex in Colorado, code named \"Area 52\". (SG1: \"Politics\")\n Question: Where is Stargate Command located in the Stargate universe.", "output": "The Stargate Command facility is located on planet Earth, in Colorado, United States, in the Cheyenne Mountain complex"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Beavers (genus Castor) are large, semiaquatic rodents of the Northern Hemisphere. There are two existing species: the North American beaver (Castor canadensis) and the Eurasian beaver (C. fiber). Beavers are the second-largest living rodents, after capybaras, weighing up to 50 kg (110 lb). They have stout bodies with large heads, long chisel-like incisors, brown or gray fur, hand-like front feet, webbed back feet, and tails that are flat and scaly. The two species differ in skull and tail shape and fur color. Beavers can be found in a number of freshwater habitats, such as rivers, streams, lakes and ponds. They are herbivorous, consuming tree bark, aquatic plants, grasses and sedges.\n\nBeavers build dams and lodges using tree branches, vegetation, rocks and mud; they chew down trees for building material. Dams restrict water flow, and lodges serve as shelters. Their infrastructure creates wetlands used by many other species, and because of their effect on other organisms in the ecosystem, beavers are considered a keystone species.\n Question: Based on the given text, do beavers eat wood or do they only chop down trees for dams?", "output": "Beavers are herbivorous and are known to consume tree bark as part of their diet. However, beavers often build dams and lodges using fallen tree branches and other vegetation that they chew with their teeth in order to make materials for restricting water flow and shelter."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The company was incorporated as Tesla Motors, Inc. on July 1, 2003, by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning. Eberhard and Tarpenning served as CEO and CFO, respectively. Eberhard said he wanted to build \"a car manufacturer that is also a technology company\", with its core technologies as \"the battery, the computer software, and the proprietary motor\".\n\nIan Wright was Tesla's third employee, joining a few months later. In February 2004, the company raised $7.5 million in series A funding, including $6.5 million from Elon Musk, who had received $100 million from the sale of his interest in PayPal two years earlier. Musk became the chairman of the board of directors and the largest shareholder of Tesla. J. B. Straubel joined Tesla in May 2004 as chief technical officer.\n\nA lawsuit settlement agreed to by Eberhard and Tesla in September 2009 allows all five \u2013 Eberhard, Tarpenning, Wright, Musk, and Straubel \u2013 to call themselves co-founders.\n Question: Given these paragraphs about the founding of Tesla, who else part from Elon Musk and J. B. Straubel are co-founders of Tesla?", "output": "Eberhard, Tarpenning and Wright"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: This article is about 21st century genre and overarching term for West African pop music. For the 1960s/1970s genre made by artists such as Fela Kuti and Tony Allen, see Afrobeat. For the British genre popularised by J Hus, see Afroswing.\n Question: What is the history of Afrobeats?", "output": "Afrobeats (not to be confused with Afrobeat or Afroswing), or Afro-pop or Afro-fusion (or Afropop or Afrofusion), is an umbrella term to describe popular music from West Africa and the diaspora that initially developed in Nigeria, Ghana, and the UK in the 2000s and 2010s. Afrobeats is less of a style per se, and more of a descriptor for the fusion of sounds flowing out of Ghana and Nigeria. Genres such as hiplife, j\u00f9j\u00fa music, highlife and naija beats, among others, were amalgamated under the 'Afrobeats' umbrella."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Operation Aurora was a series of cyber attacks conducted by advanced persistent threats such as the Elderwood Group based in Beijing, China, with ties to the People's Liberation Army. First publicly disclosed by Google on January 12, 2010, in a blog post, the attacks began in mid-2009 and continued through December 2009.\n\nThe attack was aimed at dozens of other organizations, of which Adobe Systems, Akamai Technologies, Juniper Networks, and Rackspace have publicly confirmed that they were targeted. According to media reports, Yahoo, Symantec, Northrop Grumman, Morgan Stanley, and Dow Chemical were also among the targets.\n\nAs a result of the attack, Google stated in its blog that it plans to operate a completely uncensored version of its search engine in China \"within the law, if at all,\" and acknowledged that if this is not possible, it may leave China and close its Chinese offices. Official Chinese sources claimed this was part of a strategy developed by the U.S. government.\n\nThe attack was named \"Operation Aurora\" by Dmitri Alperovitch, Vice President of Threat Research at cybersecurity company McAfee. Research by McAfee Labs discovered that \"Aurora\" was part of the file path on the attacker's machine that was included in two of the malware binaries McAfee said were associated with the attack. \"We believe the name was the internal name the attacker(s) gave to this operation,\" McAfee Chief Technology Officer George Kurtz said in a blog post.\n\nAccording to McAfee, the primary goal of the attack was to gain access to and potentially modify source code repositories at these high-tech, security, and defense contractor companies. \"[The SCMs] were wide open,\" says Alperovitch. \"No one ever thought about securing them, yet these were the crown jewels of most of these companies in many ways\u2014much more valuable than any financial or personally identifiable data that they may have and spend so much time and effort protecting.\"\n\nHistory\n\nFlowers left outside Google China's headquarters after its announcement it might leave the country\nOn January 12, 2010, Google revealed on its blog that it had been the victim of a cyber attack. The company said the attack occurred in mid-December and originated from China. Google stated that over 20 other companies had been attacked; other sources have since cited that more than 34 organizations were targeted. As a result of the attack, Google said it was reviewing its business in China. On the same day, United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton issued a brief statement condemning the attacks and requesting a response from China.\n\nOn January 13, 2010, the news agency All Headline News reported that the United States Congress plans to investigate Google's allegations that the Chinese government used the company's service to spy on human rights activists.\n\nIn Beijing, visitors left flowers outside of Google's office. However, these were later removed, with a Chinese security guard stating that this was an \"illegal flower tribute\". The Chinese government has yet to issue a formal response, although an anonymous official stated that China was seeking more information on Google's intentions.\n\nAttackers involved\nFurther information: Cyberwarfare by China\nTechnical evidence including IP addresses, domain names, malware signatures, and other factors, show Elderwood was behind the Operation Aurora attack. The \"Elderwood\" group was named by Symantec (after a source-code variable used by the attackers), and is referred to as the \"Beijing Group\" by Dell Secureworks. The group obtained some of Google's source code, as well as access to information about Chinese activists. Elderwood also targeted numerous other companies in the shipping, aeronautics, arms, energy, manufacturing, engineering, electronics, financial, and software sectors.\n\nThe \"APT\" designation for the Chinese threat actors responsible for attacking Google is APT17.\n\nElderwood specializes in attacking and infiltrating second-tier defense industry suppliers that make electronic or mechanical components for top defense companies. Those firms then become a cyber \"stepping stone\" to gain access to top-tier defense contractors. One attack procedure used by Elderwood is to infect legitimate websites frequented by employees of the target company \u2013 a so-called \"water hole\" attack, just as lions stake out a watering hole for their prey. Elderwood infects these less-secure sites with malware that downloads to a computer that clicks on the site. After that, the group searches inside the network to which the infected computer is connected, finding and then downloading executives' e-mails and critical documents on company plans, decisions, acquisitions, and product designs.\n\nAttack analysis\nIn its blog posting, Google stated that some of its intellectual property had been stolen. It suggested that the attackers were interested in accessing Gmail accounts of Chinese dissidents. According to the Financial Times, two accounts used by Ai Weiwei had been attacked, their contents read and copied; his bank accounts were investigated by state security agents who claimed he was under investigation for \"unspecified suspected crimes\". However, the attackers were only able to view details on two accounts and those details were limited to things such as the subject line and the accounts' creation date.\n\nSecurity experts immediately noted the sophistication of the attack. Two days after the attack became public, McAfee reported that the attackers had exploited purported zero-day vulnerabilities (unfixed and previously unknown to the target system developers) in Internet Explorer and dubbed the attack \"Operation Aurora\". A week after the report by McAfee, Microsoft issued a fix for the issue, and admitted that they had known about the security hole used since September. Additional vulnerabilities were found in Perforce, the source code revision software used by Google to manage their source code.\n\nVeriSign's iDefense Labs claimed that the attacks were perpetrated by \"agents of the Chinese state or proxies thereof\".\n\nAccording to a diplomatic cable from the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, a Chinese source reported that the Chinese Politburo directed the intrusion into Google's computer systems. The cable suggested that the attack was part of a coordinated campaign executed by \"government operatives, public security experts and Internet outlaws recruited by the Chinese government.\" The report suggested that it was part of an ongoing campaign in which attackers have \"broken into American government computers and those of Western allies, the Dalai Lama and American businesses since 2002.\" According to The Guardian's reporting on the leak, the attacks were \"orchestrated by a senior member of the Politburo who typed his own name into the global version of the search engine and found articles criticising him personally.\"\n\nOnce a victim's system was compromised, a backdoor connection that masqueraded as an SSL connection made connections to command and control servers running in Illinois, Texas, and Taiwan, including machines that were running under stolen Rackspace customer accounts. The victim's machine then began exploring the protected corporate intranet that it was a part of, searching for other vulnerable systems as well as sources of intellectual property, specifically the contents of source code repositories.\n\nThe attacks were thought to have definitively ended on Jan 4 when the command and control servers were taken down, although it is not known at this point whether or not the attackers intentionally shut them down. However, the attacks were still occurring as of February 2010.\n\nResponse and aftermath\nThe German, Australian, and French governments publicly issued warnings to users of Internet Explorer after the attack, advising them to use alternative browsers at least until a fix for the security hole was made. The German, Australian, and French governments considered all versions of Internet Explorer vulnerable or potentially vulnerable.\n\nIn an advisory on January 14, 2010, Microsoft said that attackers targeting Google and other U.S. companies used software that exploits a hole in Internet Explorer. The vulnerability affects Internet Explorer versions 6, 7, and 8 on Windows 7, Vista, Windows XP, Server 2003, Server 2008 R2, as well as IE 6 Service Pack 1 on Windows 2000 Service Pack 4.\n\nThe Internet Explorer exploit code used in the attack has been released into the public domain, and has been incorporated into the Metasploit Framework penetration testing tool. A copy of the exploit was uploaded to Wepawet, a service for detecting and analyzing web-based malware operated by the computer security group at the University of California, Santa Barbara. \"The public release of the exploit code increases the possibility of widespread attacks using the Internet Explorer vulnerability,\" said George Kurtz, CTO of McAfee, of the attack. \"The now public computer code may help cybercriminals craft attacks that use the vulnerability to compromise Windows systems.\"\n\nSecurity company Websense said it identified \"limited public use\" of the unpatched IE vulnerability in drive-by attacks against users who strayed onto malicious Web sites. According to Websense, the attack code it spotted is the same as the exploit that went public last week.[clarification needed] \"Internet Explorer users currently face a real and present danger due to the public disclosure of the vulnerability and release of attack code, increasing the possibility of widespread attacks,\" said George Kurtz, chief technology officer of McAfee, in a blog update. Confirming this speculation, Websense Security Labs identified additional sites using the exploit on January 19. According to reports from Ahnlab, the second URL was spread through the Instant Messenger network Misslee Messenger, a popular IM client in South Korea.\n\nResearchers have created attack code that exploits the vulnerability in Internet Explorer 7 (IE7) and IE8\u2014even when Microsoft's recommended defensive measure (Data Execution Prevention (DEP)) is turned on.[dubious \u2013 discuss] According to Dino Dai Zovi, a security vulnerability researcher, \"even the newest IE8 isn't safe from attack if it's running on Windows XP Service Pack 2 (SP2) or earlier, or on Windows Vista RTM (release to manufacturing), the version Microsoft shipped in January 2007.\"\n\nMicrosoft admitted that the security hole used had been known to them since September. Work on an update was prioritized and on Thursday, January 21, 2010, Microsoft released a security patch aiming to counter this weakness, the published exploits based on it and a number of other privately reported vulnerabilities. They did not state if any of the latter had been used or published by exploiters or whether these had any particular relation to the Aurora operation, but the entire cumulative update was termed critical for most versions of Windows, including Windows 7.\n\nSecurity researchers continued to investigate the attacks. HBGary, a security firm, released a report in which they claimed to have found some significant markers that might help identify the code developer. The firm also said that the code was Chinese language based but could not be specifically tied to any government entity.\n\nOn February 19, 2010, a security expert investigating the cyber-attack on Google, has claimed that the people behind the attack were also responsible for the cyber-attacks made on several Fortune 100 companies in the past one and a half years. They have also tracked the attack back to its point of origin, which seems to be two Chinese schools, Shanghai Jiao Tong University and Lanxiang Vocational School. As highlighted by The New York Times, both of these schools have ties with the Chinese search engine Baidu, a rival of Google China. Both Lanxiang Vocational and Jiaotong University have denied the allegation.\n\nIn March 2010, Symantec, which was helping investigate the attack for Google, identified Shaoxing as the source of 21.3% of all (12 billion) malicious emails sent throughout the world.\n\nGoogle retrospective\nOn October 3, 2022, Google on YouTube released a six-episode series covering the events that occurred during Operation Aurora, with commentary from insiders who dealt with the attack, though the series primary focus was to reassure the Google-using public that measures are in place to counter hacking attempts.\n Question: Given this article about Operation Aurora, Which nation was beleived to be behund the attacks?", "output": "China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) is believed to be behind this operation."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Desaraja Adiguru Singhari Shyamasundar Kar (Odia: \u0b38\u0b3f\u0b02\u0b39\u0b3e\u0b30\u0b40 \u0b36\u0b4d\u0b5f\u0b3e\u0b2e\u0b38\u0b41\u0b28\u0b4d\u0b26\u0b30 \u0b15\u0b30, romanized: Singh\u0101ri Sy\u0101masundara Kara; 4 March 1908 \u2013 16 March 1975) was a renowned Odissi musician, Guru, singer, scholar and composer. Born to a sebayata (servitor) family of the Jagannatha Temple, he was groomed under veteran masters of the temple tradition and soon rose to be one of the towering Gurus of Odissi classical music in the 20th century. He was most known for his powerful voice and intricate style, his command over the Mardala as well as his contribution towards the academic institutionalization of Odissi music education. Most of the performers of Odissi music, Mardala and Odissi dance of his period admit to having come under the commanding influence and knowledge of Singhari. He died on 16 March 1975.\n Question: Who was Singhari Shyamasundar Kar", "output": "Desaraja Adiguru Singhari Shyamasundar Kar (4 March 1908 \u2013 16 March 1975) was a renowned Odissi musician, Guru, singer, scholar and composer. Born to a sebayata (servitor) family of the Jagannatha Temple, he was groomed under veteran masters of the temple tradition and soon rose to be one of the towering Gurus of Odissi classical music in the 20th century. \n\nHe was most known for his powerful voice and intricate style, his command over the Mardala as well as his contribution towards the academic institutionalization of Odissi music education. Most of the performers of Odissi music, Mardala and Odissi dance of his period admit to having come under the commanding influence and knowledge of Singhari. He died on 16 March 1975."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Ford Telstar is an automobile that was sold by Ford in Asia, Australasia and Africa, comparable in size to the European Ford Sierra and the North American Ford Tempo. It was progressively replaced by the Ford Mondeo. It was named after the Telstar satellite.\n Question: Based on this paragraph, where was the The Ford Telstar sold?", "output": "Asia, Australasia and Africa"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The European Union (EU) is a supranational political and economic union of 27 member states that are located primarily in Europe. The union has a total area of 4,233,255.3 km2 (1,634,469.0 sq mi) and an estimated total population of nearly 447 million. The EU has often been described as a sui generis political entity (without precedent or comparison) combining the characteristics of both a federation and a confederation.\n Question: How many member states does the European Union have?", "output": "27"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wagyu \n\nCattle were brought to Japan from China at the same time as the cultivation of rice, in about the second century AD, in the Yayoi period.:\u200a209\u200a Until about the time of the Meiji Restoration in 1868, they were used only as draught animals, in agriculture, forestry, mining and for transport, and as a source of fertilizer. Milk consumption was unknown, and \u2013 for cultural and religious reasons \u2013 meat was not eaten. Cattle were highly prized and valuable, too expensive for a poor farmer to buy.:\u200a2\u200a\n\nJapan was effectively isolated from the rest of the world from 1635 until 1854; there was no possibility of the intromission of foreign genes to the cattle population during this time. Between 1868, the year of the Meiji Restoration, and 1887, some 2600 foreign cattle were imported.:\u200a7\u200a At first, there was little interest in cross-breeding these with the native stock, but from about 1900, it became widespread. It ceased abruptly in 1910 when it was realised that, while the cross-breeds might be larger and have better dairy qualities, their working capacity and meat quality was lower.:\u200a7\u200a From 1919, the various heterogeneous regional populations that resulted from this brief period of cross-breeding were registered and selected as \"Improved Japanese Cattle\". Four separate strains were characterised, based mainly on which type of foreign cattle had most influenced the hybrids, and were recognised as individual breeds in 1944.:\u200a8\u200a They are collectively known as wagy\u016b, and are::\u200a66\u200a:\u200a420\u200a\n\nThe Japanese Black (\u9ed2\u6bdb\u548c\u7a2e, kuroge washu), which constitutes over 90% of beef cattle in Japan; regional strains within the breed include the Tottori, Tajima, Shimane and Okayama.\nThe Japanese Brown or Japanese Red (\u8910\u6bdb\u548c\u7a2e, akage washu or akaushi), the other main breed, representing about 5% of all beef cattle;:\u200a17\u200a reared in southern Japan, in K\u014dchi Prefecture on Shikoku island, and in Kumamoto Prefecture on Kyushu island.:\u200a8\u200a\nThe Japanese Polled (\u7121\u89d2\u548c\u7a2e, mukaku washu), found principally in Yamaguchi Prefecture:\u200a8\u200a\nThe Japanese Shorthorn (\u65e5\u672c\u77ed\u89d2\u548c\u7a2e, nihon tankaku washu), reared in northern Japan, mainly in Iwate Prefecture; it constitutes less than one percent of all wagyu cattle.[\n Question: Given a reference text about Wagyu, tell me the different types of cattle that are together known as wagyu.", "output": "The different types of cattle that are known as Wagyu are:\n- The Japanese Black\n- The Japanese Brown\n- The Japanese Polled\n- The Japanese Shorthorn"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 1980 Miami Hurricanes football team represented the University of Miami as an independent during the 1980 NCAA Division I-A football season. Led by second-year head coach Howard Schnellenberger, the Hurricanes played their home games at the Miami Orange Bowl in Miami, Florida. Miami finished the season with a record of 9\u20133. They were invited to the Peach Bowl, where they defeated Virginia Tech, 20\u201310.\n Question: What was the record for University of Miami Hurricanes in 1980?", "output": "The Hurricanes won 9 games and lost 3 games in 1980"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Cali Cartel (Spanish: Cartel de Cali) was a drug cartel based in southern Colombia, around the city of Cali and the Valle del Cauca. Its founders were the brothers Gilberto Rodr\u00edguez Orejuela, Miguel Rodr\u00edguez Orejuela and Jos\u00e9 Santacruz Londo\u00f1o. They broke away from Pablo Escobar and his Medell\u00edn associates in 1987, when H\u00e9lmer \"Pacho\" Herrera joined what became a four-man executive board that ran the cartel.\n\nAt the height of the Cali Cartel's reign from 1993 to 1995, they were cited as having control of over 80% of the world's cocaine market and were said to be directly responsible for the growth of the cocaine market in Europe, controlling 80% of the market there as well. By the mid-1990s, the leaders of the Cali Cartel's multibillion-dollar international drug trafficking empire were operating a US$20 billion a year global criminal empire.\n Question: Given this paragraph, how much control of the world's cocaine market did the Cali Cartel have at its peak?", "output": "At the Cali Cartel's peak from 1993 to 1995, they controlled over 80% of the world's cocaine market."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hailstorm Island is a rocky island, 0.5 kilometres (0.25 nmi) long, between Cameron Island and the east end of Burnett Island in the central part of the Swain Islands, Antarctica. It was first roughly mapped from air photos taken by U.S. Navy Operation Highjump, 1946\u201347, and included in a 1957 survey of the Swain Islands by Wilkes Station personnel under Carl R. Eklund. It was named by Eklund for Radioman Kenneth J. Hailstorm, U.S. Navy, a Naval support force member of the 1957 wintering party at Wilkes Station during the International Geophysical Year.\n Question: When was hailstorm island first photographed given this text", "output": "1946"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pain is a distressing feeling often caused by intense or damaging stimuli. The International Association for the Study of Pain defines pain as \"an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with, or resembling that associated with, actual or potential tissue damage.\"\n\nPain motivates us to withdraw from damaging situations, to protect a damaged body part while it heals, and to avoid similar experiences in the future. Most pain resolves once the noxious stimulus is removed and the body has healed, but it may persist despite removal of the stimulus and apparent healing of the body. Sometimes pain arises in the absence of any detectable stimulus, damage or disease.\n Question: Is there any benefit to pain?", "output": "Pain helps us withdraw from further severe damage to body"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The incudomalleolar joint (more correctly called incudomallear joint) or articulatio incudomallearis is a small synovial joint between the malleus (hammer) and the incus (anvil). The joint's function is to transfer vibrations between the ossicles in the middle ear, which is perceived as sound. Contrary to other synovial joints the movement is very limited. All of the ossicles move more or less as a unit, at least at low frequencies.\n\nWhen the eardrum is moved inward due to sound vibrations, transferred through the outer ear, it transmits to the handle or manubrium of the malleus which is connected to the ear drum. The head of the malleus (caput mallei) moves with it and transfers energy/movement to the corpus of the incus (corpus incudis), which is located directly behind. The sound vibrations are then transferred to the stapes (stirrup) through the incudostapedial joint.\n Question: Given a reference text about the incudomalleolar joint, tell me its main function.", "output": "The function of the incudomalleolar joint is to transfer vibrations between the ossicles in the middle ear."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jiang Zemin (17 August 1926 \u2013 30 November 2022) was a Chinese politician who served as general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) from 1989 to 2002, as chairman of the Central Military Commission from 1989 to 2004, and as president of China from 1993 to 2003. Jiang was paramount leader of China from 1989 to 2002. He was the core leader of the third generation of Chinese leadership, one of four core leaders alongside Mao Zedong, Deng Xiaoping and Xi Jinping.\n\nBorn in Yangzhou, Jiangsu, Jiang joined the CCP while he was in college. After the establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949, he received training at the Stalin Automobile Works in Moscow in the 1950s, later returning to Shanghai in 1962 to serve in various institutes, later being sent between 1970-1972 to Romania as part of an expert team to establish machinery manufacturing plants in the country. After 1979, he was appointed as the vice chair of two commissions by vice premier Gu Mu to oversee the newly-established special economic zones (SEZs). He became the vice minister of the newly-established Ministry of Electronics Industry and a member of the CCP Central Committee in 1982.\n\nJiang was appointed as the mayor of Shanghai in 1985, later being promoted to its Communist Party secretary, as well as a member of the CCP Politburo, in 1987. Jiang came to power unexpectedly as a compromise candidate following the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests and massacre, when he replaced Zhao Ziyang as CCP general secretary after Zhao was ousted for his support for the student movement. As the involvement of the \"Eight Elders\" in Chinese politics steadily declined, Jiang consolidated his hold on power to become the \"paramount leader\" in the country during the 1990s. Urged by Deng Xiaoping's southern tour in 1992, Jiang officially introduced the term \"socialist market economy\" in his speech during the 14th CCP National Congress held later that year, which accelerated \"opening up and reform\".\n\nUnder Jiang's leadership, China experienced substantial economic growth with the continuation of market reforms. The returning of Hong Kong from the United Kingdom in 1997 and of Macau from Portugal in 1999, and entry into the World Trade Organisation in 2001, were landmark moments of his era. China also witnessed improved relations with the outside world, while the Communist Party maintained its tight control over the state. Jiang faced criticism over human rights abuses, including the crackdown on the Falun Gong movement. His contributions to party doctrine, known as the \"Three Represents\", were written into the CCP constitution in 2002. Jiang gradually vacated his official leadership titles from 2002 to 2005, being succeeded in these roles by Hu Jintao, although he and his political faction continued to influence affairs until much later. On 30 November 2022, Jiang died from leukemia and multiple organ failure in Shanghai.\n Question: What's Jiang's theoretical contribution?", "output": "The Three Represents"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Moha (Chinese: \u819c\u86e4; pinyin: M\u00f3 H\u00e1, pronounced [mu\u01d2.x\u01ce]), literally \"admiring toad\" or \"toad worship\", is an internet meme spoofing Jiang Zemin, former General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party and paramount leader. It originated among the netizens in mainland China and has become a subculture on the Chinese internet. According to another explanation, it comes from China's social media Baidu Tieba. In the culture, Jiang is nicknamed h\u00e1, or \"toad\", because of his supposed resemblance to a toad. Netizens who m\u00f3h\u00e1 (worship the toad) call themselves \"toad fans\", \"toad lovers\" or \"toad worshippers\" (simplified Chinese: \u86e4\u4e1d; traditional Chinese: \u86e4\u7d72), or \"mogicians\" (\u819c\u6cd5\u5e08; \u819c\u6cd5\u5e2b) which is a wordplay on m\u00f3f\u01cesh\u012b (\u9b54\u6cd5\u5e08; \u9b54\u6cd5\u5e2b, magician) in Mandarin.[note 1]\n\nAnother nickname for Jiang is \"elder\" or \"senior\" (\u957f\u8005; \u9577\u8005; Zh\u01cengzh\u011b), because he once called himself an \"elder\" or \"senior\" when he was berating Hong Kong journalist Sharon Cheung who questioned him. A video clip recording this event spread on the internet and led to the rise of the culture, which later greatly rose in popularity around 2014, when Hong Kong was experiencing a period of political instability. Initially, netizens extracted Jiang's quotes from the video and imitated his wording and tone, for parody and insult. However, as the culture developed, some imitations have taken to carrying affection toward him. The quotes for imitation have also evolved to include what he said during his leadership, and in his personal life.\n Question: What is a nickname of Jiang Zemin", "output": "Elder or senior"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Isthmohyla debilis is a rare species of frog in the family Hylidae. It occurs in the Atlantic slopes of the Cordillera Central and Cordillera Talamanca in Costa Rica and western Panama as well as on the Pacific slopes in southwestern Panama. Common name Isla Bonita treefrog has been suggested for it (the type locality is \"Isla Bonita\" in Costa Rica).\n Question: Given the reference text below, what is Isthmohyla debilis?", "output": "Isthmohyla debilis is a rare species of Frog that is found in Costa Rica and Panama."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: USS West Gate (ID-3216) was a cargo ship for the United States Navy during World War I. The ship was laid down as SS War Agate, but she was launched in January 1918 as SS West Gate instead.\n Question: Given this reference text about cargo ships, when was the USS West Gate launched?", "output": "January 1918"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Age of Empires is a series of historical real-time strategy video games, originally developed by Ensemble Studios and published by Xbox Game Studios. The first game was Age of Empires, released in 1997. Nine total games within the series have been released so far as of October 28, 2021.\n\nAge of Empires focused on events in Europe, Africa and Asia, spanning from the Stone Age to the Iron Age; the expansion game explored the formation and expansion of the Roman Empire. The sequel, Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings, was set in the Middle Ages, while its expansion focused partially on the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire. The subsequent three games of Age of Empires III explored the early modern period, when Europe was colonizing the Americas and several Asian nations were on the decline. Another installment, Age of Empires Online, takes a different approach as a free-to-play online game utilizing Games for Windows Live. A spin-off game, Age of Mythology, was set in the same period as the original Age of Empires, but focused on mythological elements of Greek, Egyptian, and Norse mythology. The fourth main installment in the series, Age of Empires IV, was released on October 28, 2021.\n\nThe Age of Empires series has been a commercial success, selling over 25 million copies. Critics have credited part of the success of the series to its historical theme and fair play; the artificial intelligence (AI) players have fewer advantages than in many of the series' competitors.\n Question: What is Age of Empires?", "output": "Age of Empires is a classic PC game originally developed by Microsoft, released in 1997. It has 4 versions now and is still being played online by many players."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: North Carolina is a state in the Southern United States. The state is the 28th largest and 9th-most populous of the United States. It is bordered by Virginia to the north, the Atlantic Ocean to the east, Georgia and South Carolina to the south, and Tennessee to the west. In the 2020 census, the state had a population of 10,439,388. Raleigh is the state's capital and Charlotte is its largest city.\n Question: What is the population of North Carolina?", "output": "In the 2020 census, the state of North Carolina had a population of 10,439,388. The state is the 28th largest and 9th-most populous of the United States."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cologne is the largest city of the German western state of North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW) and the fourth-most populous city of Germany with 1.1 million inhabitants in the city proper and 3.6 million people in the urban region. Centered on the left (west) bank of the Rhine, Cologne is about 35 km (22 mi) southeast of NRW's state capital D\u00fcsseldorf and 25 km (16 mi) northwest of Bonn, the former capital of West Germany.\n\nWildlife\n\nThe presence of animals in Cologne is generally limited to insects, small rodents, and several species of birds. Pigeons are the most often seen animals in Cologne, although the number of birds is augmented each year by a growing population of feral exotics, most visibly parrots such as the rose-ringed parakeet. The sheltered climate in southeast Northrhine-Westphalia allows these birds to survive through the winter, and in some cases, they are displacing native species. The plumage of Cologne's green parrots is highly visible even from a distance, and contrasts starkly with the otherwise muted colours of the cityscape.\n Question: Given the reference text about the city of Cologne and its wildlife, can I expect to see any cats in Cologne?", "output": "Although, the passage about the wildlife in the city of Cologne does not mention cats, it is possible to encounter cats in Cologne since it is very common for people in western cultures to own cats and let them outside on their own. The reason cats are not mentioned in the passage is that cats are not considered wildlife but pets. This, of course, excludes species of \"large cats\" such as lions or tigers which you would typically not encounter in a city, unless you go to the zoo."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sony was the first to introduce a full-frame mirrorless camera, the \u03b17, in 2013.\n Question: Which full-frame mirrorless camera was first available in the market?", "output": "Sony \u03b17 in 2013"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"The Obili\u0107 Medal (Serbian: \u041e\u0431\u0438\u043b\u0438\u045b\u0430 \u043c\u0435\u0434\u0430\u0459\u0430) or Medal for Bravery \"\"Milo\u0161 Obili\u0107\"\" was a medal established by Petar II Petrovi\u0107-Njego\u0161 as the highest military decoration in Montenegro, based on the cult of national hero Milo\u0161 Obili\u0107.\n\nThe official name of the medal was the Medal for Bravery \"\"Milo\u0161 Obili\u0107\"\" but it was known as Obili\u0107 Medal.\n\nIt was established in 1847 and granted to soldiers for the acts of great personal courage, or for personal courage demonstrated on the battlefield, prepared for the movement for liberation and revenge of the Kosovo Battle. Another reason for introduction of this medal by Njego\u0161 was his wish to make warfare against the Ottomans more civilized (to replace customary collection and exhibition of body parts of killed Muslim enemies).\"\n Question: What does the Obilic Medal commemorate?", "output": "The Obili\u0107 Medal was established in 1847, and is the highest military decoration granted to soldiers in Montenegro for acts of great personal courage, or for personal courage demonstrated on the battlefield."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Masters Tournament\nThe tournament has a number of traditions. Since 1949, a green jacket has been awarded to the champion, who must return it to the clubhouse one year after his victory, although it remains his personal property and is stored with other champions' jackets in a specially designated cloakroom. In most instances, only a first-time and currently reigning champion may remove his jacket from the club grounds. A golfer who wins the event multiple times uses the same green jacket awarded upon his initial win (unless they need to be re-fitted with a new jacket). The Champions Dinner, inaugurated by Ben Hogan in 1952, is held on the Tuesday before each tournament, and is open only to past champions and certain board members of the Augusta National Golf Club. Beginning in 1963, legendary golfers, usually past champions, have hit an honorary tee shot on the morning of the first round to commence play. These have included Fred McLeod, Jock Hutchinson, Gene Sarazen, Sam Snead, Byron Nelson, Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player, Lee Elder, and Tom Watson. Since 1960, a semi-social contest at the par-3 course has been played on Wednesday, the day before the first round.\n Question: Based on the reference text, what does the champion of the Masters Tournament receive?", "output": "The champion of the Masters Tournament receives a green jacket. However, it must be returned to the clubhouse the following year to be stored in a designated cloakroom."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific tasks.\n\nProperties\nThough the term large language model has no formal definition, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more. LLMs are general purpose models which excel at a wide range of tasks, as opposed to being trained for one specific task (such as sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or mathematical reasoning). The skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable, seems to be a function of the amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design.\n\nThough trained on simple tasks along the lines of predicting the next word in a sentence, neural language models with sufficient training and parameter counts are found to capture much of the syntax and semantics of human language. In addition, large language models demonstrate considerable general knowledge about the world, and are able to \"memorize\" a great quantity of facts during training.\n\nHallucinations\nMain article: Hallucination (artificial intelligence)\nIn artificial intelligence in general, and in large language models in particular, a \"hallucination\" is a confident response that does not seem to be justified by the model's training data.\n\nEmergent abilities\n\nOn a number of natural language benchmarks involving tasks such as question answering, models perform no better than random chance until they reach a certain scale (in this case, measured by training computation), at which point their performance sharply increases. These are examples of emergent abilities.\nUnpredictable abilities that have been observed in large language models but that were not present in simpler models (and that were not explicitly designed into the model) are usually called \"emergent abilities\". Researchers note that such abilities \"cannot be predicted simply by extrapolating the performance of smaller models\". These abilities are discovered rather than programmed-in or designed, in some cases only after the LLM has been publicly deployed. Hundreds of emergent abilities have been described. Examples include multi-step arithmetic, taking college-level exams, identifying the intended meaning of a word, chain-of-thought prompting, decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet, unscrambling a word\u2019s letters, identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs.\n\nArchitecture and training\nLarge language models have most commonly used the transformer architecture, which, since 2018, has become the standard deep learning technique for sequential data (previously, recurrent architectures such as the LSTM were most common). LLMs are trained in an unsupervised manner on unannotated text. A left-to-right transformer is trained to maximize the probability assigned to the next word in the training data, given the previous context. Alternatively, an LLM may use a bidirectional transformer (as in the example of BERT), which assigns a probability distribution over words given access to both preceding and following context. In addition to the task of predicting the next word or \"filling in the blanks\", LLMs may be trained on auxiliary tasks which test their understanding of the data distribution such as Next Sentence Prediction (NSP), in which pairs of sentences are presented and the model must predict whether they appear side-by-side in the training corpus.\n\nThe earliest LLMs were trained on corpora having on the order of billions of words. The first model in OpenAI's GPT series was trained in 2018 on BookCorpus, consisting of 985 million words. In the same year, BERT was trained on a combination of BookCorpus and English Wikipedia, totalling 3.3 billion words. In the years since then, training corpora for LLMs have increased by orders of magnitude, reaching up to hundreds of billions or trillions of tokens.\n\nLLMs are computationally expensive to train. A 2020 study estimated the cost of training a 1.5 billion parameter model (1-2 orders of magnitude smaller than the state of the art at the time) at $1.6 million.\n\nA 2020 analysis found that neural language models' capability (as measured by training loss) increased smoothly in a power law relationship with number of parameters, quantity of training data, and computation used for training. These relationships were tested over a wide range of values (up to seven orders of magnitude) and no attenuation of the relationship was observed at the highest end of the range (including for network sizes up to trillions of parameters).\n\nApplication to downstream tasks\nBetween 2018 and 2020, the standard method for harnessing an LLM for a specific natural language processing (NLP) task was to fine tune the model with additional task-specific training. It has subsequently been found that more powerful LLMs such as GPT-3 can solve tasks without additional training via \"prompting\" techniques, in which the problem to be solved is presented to the model as a text prompt, possibly with some textual examples of similar problems and their solutions.\n\nFine-tuning\nMain article: Fine-tuning (machine learning)\nFine-tuning is the practice of modifying an existing pretrained language model by training it (in a supervised fashion) on a specific task (e.g. sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or part-of-speech tagging). It is a form of transfer learning. It generally involves the introduction of a new set of weights connecting the final layer of the language model to the output of the downstream task. The original weights of the language model may be \"frozen\", such that only the new layer of weights connecting them to the output are learned during training. Alternatively, the original weights may receive small updates (possibly with earlier layers frozen).\n\nPrompting\nSee also: Prompt engineering and Few-shot learning (natural language processing)\nIn the prompting paradigm, popularized by GPT-3, the problem to be solved is formulated via a text prompt, which the model must solve by providing a completion (via inference). In \"few-shot prompting\", the prompt includes a small number of examples of similar (problem, solution) pairs. For example, a sentiment analysis task of labelling the sentiment of a movie review could be prompted as follows:\n\nReview: This movie stinks.\nSentiment: negative\n\nReview: This movie is fantastic!\nSentiment:\n\nIf the model outputs \"positive\", then it has correctly solved the task. In zero-shot prompting, no solve examples are provided. An example of a zero-shot prompt for the same sentiment analysis task would be \"The sentiment associated with the movie review 'This movie is fantastic!' is\".\n\nFew-shot performance of LLMs has been shown to achieve competitive results on NLP tasks, sometimes surpassing prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Examples of such NLP tasks are translation, question answering, cloze tasks, unscrambling words, and using a novel word in a sentence. The creation and optimisation of such prompts is called prompt engineering.\n\nInstruction tuning\nInstruction tuning is a form of fine-tuning designed to facilitate more natural and accurate zero-shot prompting interactions. Given a text input, a pretrained language model will generate a completion which matches the distribution of text on which it was trained. A naive language model given the prompt \"Write an essay about the main themes of Hamlet.\" might provide a completion such as \"A late penalty of 10% per day will be applied to submissions received after March 17.\" In instruction tuning, the language model is trained on many examples of tasks formulated as natural language instructions, along with appropriate responses. Various techniques for instruction tuning have been applied in practice. OpenAI's InstructGPT protocol involves supervised fine-tuning on a dataset of human-generated (prompt, response) pairs, followed by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), in which a reward function was learned based on a dataset of human preferences. Another technique, \"self-instruct\", fine-tunes the language model on a training set of examples which are themselves generated by an LLM (bootstrapped from a small initial set of human-generated examples).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Large language models, what are relevant dimensions influencing the skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable?", "output": "The amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the 1994\u201395 season, J\u00e1gr won his first Art Ross Trophy after finishing the regular season with the most points in the NHL; he tied Eric Lindros with 70 points but won based on his 32 goals to Lindros' 29. The next year, J\u00e1gr set a record for most points, 149, by a European-born player. Both his 62 goals and 87 assists from that season still stand as career-highs. His 1995\u201396 totals for assists and points stand as the records for right-wingers in those categories. After the 1997\u201398 season, Penguins captain Ron Francis signed with the Carolina Hurricanes, leaving J\u00e1gr the Penguins' captaincy. From 1997\u201398 to 2000\u201301, J\u00e1gr would win four-straight NHL scoring titles. In 1999, he would win the Hart Memorial Trophy as the NHL's most valuable player, as well as the Lester B. Pearson Award. In 1998, he led the Czech Republic to a gold medal at the 1998 Winter Olympics.\n Question: How many points did Jarom\u00edr J\u00e1gr score in the 1995-1996 season?", "output": "In a record-setting year, Jarom\u00edr J\u00e1gr scored 149 points in the 1995-96 season."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A lettering guide template is a special type of template used to write uniform characters. It consists of a sheet of plastic or other material with cut-outs of letters, numbers, and other shapes used especially for creating technical drawings. For decades they have been essential for lettering a drawing nameplate so text and other designs could be made quickly and uniformly.\n\nAlthough they have been superseded by the use of computers, during the greater part of the last century they were used to relatively ease the lettering process in the creation of technical drawings. They were an indispensable tool for architects and technical illustrators in general, for labeling their drawings and plans but also for the description of projects, in which it was good practice to use a lettering template to achieve uniform and well-written text.\n\nA lettering template could also be used by people illiterate or semi-illiterate to learn to type, or improve their handwriting. In the course of political history some politicians, such as Bettino Craxi, have used them to help people with writing difficulties. They distributed cardboard templates with the sequence of characters of their last name, so they could be easily written during the voting process.\n Question: per the context given, how would illiterate politicians able to vote?", "output": "They used lettering guide templates made of cardboard with characters of their last name"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Beavers (genus Castor) are large, semiaquatic rodents of the Northern Hemisphere. There are two existing species: the North American beaver (Castor canadensis) and the Eurasian beaver (C. fiber). Beavers are the second-largest living rodents, after capybaras, weighing up to 30 kilograms (66 lb). Beavers have stout bodies with large heads, long chisel-like incisors, brown or gray fur, hand-like front feet, webbed back feet, and tails that are flat and scaly. The two species differ in skull and tail shape and fur color. Beavers can be found in a number of freshwater habitats, such as rivers, streams, lakes and ponds. They are herbivorous, consuming tree bark, aquatic plants, grasses and sedges.\n Question: What genus are beavers a part of?", "output": "Castor genus"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Population numbers have been recorded in Osaka since as early as 1873, in the early Meiji era. According to the census in 2005, there were 2,628,811 residents in Osaka, an increase of 30,037 or 1.2% from 2000. There were 1,280,325 households with approximately 2.1 persons per household. The population density was 11,836 persons per km2. The Great Kant\u014d earthquake caused a mass migration to Osaka between 1920 and 1930, and the city became Japan's largest city in 1930 with 2,453,573 people, outnumbering even Tokyo, which had a population of 2,070,913. The population peaked at 3,252,340 in 1940, and had a post-war peak of 3,156,222 in 1965, but continued to declined since, as the residents moved out to the suburbs.\n\nThere were 144,123 registered foreigners, the two largest groups being Korean (60,110) and Chinese (39,551) 2021 years. Ikuno, with its Tsuruhashi district, is the home to one of the largest population of Korean residents in Japan, with 20,397 registered Zainichi Koreans.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the demographics of Osaka, what was the highest number of residents ever recorded to be living in Osaka at any one point in time?", "output": "The highest population ever recorded in Osaka was 3,252,340 in 1940."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Theodor Seuss Geisel (/su\u02d0s \u02c8\u0261a\u026az\u0259l, z\u0254\u026as -/ (listen); March 2, 1904 \u2013 September 24, 1991) was an American children's author and cartoonist. He is known for his work writing and illustrating more than 60 books under the pen name Dr. Seuss (/su\u02d0s, zu\u02d0s/). His work includes many of the most popular children's books of all time, selling over 600 million copies and being translated into more than 20 languages by the time of his death.\n Question: How many books did Dr Seuss write?", "output": "Dr Seuss is known for his work writing and illustrating more than 60 books under the pen name Dr. Seuss"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Generally sinusitis starts off as a common viral infection like common cold. This infection generally subsides within 5 to 7 days. During this time the nasal structures can swell and facilitate the stagnation of fluids in sinuses that leads to acute sinusitis which lasts from 6th day of the infection to 15th day. From the 15th day to 45th day of the infection comes the subacute stage followed by chronic stage. Whenever a chronic stage patient's immunity takes a hit the infection moves to \"acute on sinusitis\" stage and moves back to chronic when the immunity is up.\n Question: How long does it take to recover from a sinus infection?", "output": "Given this paragraph about Sinusitis, it takes 5-7 days to feel much better."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A 2013 report by the City of London Corporation said that London is the \"greenest city\" in Europe with 14,164 hectares (35,000 acres) of public parks, woodlands and gardens. The largest parks in the central area of London are three of the eight Royal Parks, namely Hyde Park and its neighbour Kensington Gardens in the west, and Regent's Park to the north. Hyde Park in particular is popular for sports and sometimes hosts open-air concerts. Regent's Park contains London Zoo, the world's oldest scientific zoo, and is near Madame Tussauds Wax Museum. Primrose Hill, immediately to the north of Regent's Park, at 256 feet (78 m) is a popular spot from which to view the city skyline.\n Question: Which parks are popular in London?", "output": "Popular parks in London includes Hyde Park, Regent's Park and Kensington Gardens."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Chinese cuisine encompasses the numerous cuisines originating from China, as well as overseas cuisines created by the Chinese diaspora. Because of the Chinese diaspora and historical power of the country, Chinese cuisine has influenced many other cuisines in Asia and beyond, with modifications made to cater to local palates. Chinese food staples such as rice, soy sauce, noodles, tea, chili oil, and tofu, and utensils such as chopsticks and the wok, can now be found worldwide.\n\nThe preferences for seasoning and cooking techniques of Chinese provinces depend on differences in social class, religion, historical background, and ethnic groups. Geographic features including mountains, rivers, forests, and deserts also have a strong effect on the local available ingredients, considering that the climate of China varies from tropical in the south to subarctic in the northeast. Imperial royal and noble preference also plays a role in the change of Chinese cuisine. Because of imperial expansion and trading, ingredients and cooking techniques from other cultures have been integrated into Chinese cuisines over time.\n\nThere are numerous regional, religious, and ethnic styles of Chinese cuisine found within China and abroad. Chinese cuisine is highly diverse and most frequently categorized into provincial divisions, although these province-level classifications consist of many more styles within themselves. The most praised Four Great Traditions in Chinese cuisine are Chuan, Lu, Yue, and Huaiyang, representing cuisines of West, North, South, and East China, respectively. The modern Eight Cuisines of China are Anhui (\u5fbd\u83dc; Hu\u012bc\u00e0i), Guangdong (\u7ca4\u83dc; Yu\u00e8c\u00e0i), Fujian (\u95fd\u83dc; M\u01d0nc\u00e0i), Hunan (\u6e58\u83dc; Xi\u0101ngc\u00e0i), Jiangsu (\u82cf\u83dc; S\u016bc\u00e0i), Shandong (\u9c81\u83dc; L\u01d4c\u00e0i), Sichuan (\u5ddd\u83dc; Chu\u0101nc\u00e0i), and Zhejiang (\u6d59\u83dc; Zh\u00e8c\u00e0i) cuisines.\n\n\nA Quanjude cook is slicing Peking roast duck. Peking duck is eaten by rolling pieces of duck with scallion, cucumber and sweet bean sauce using steamed pancakes.\nColor, scent and taste are the three traditional aspects used to describe Chinese food, as well as the meaning, appearance, and nutrition of the food. Cooking should be appraised with respect to the ingredients used, knife work, cooking time, and seasoning.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Chinese cuisine, tell me what are the sub-cuisines, and what made them different.", "output": "The modern Chinese cuisine were broken down into 8 different styles of local cuisine, which are Anhui, Guangdong, Fujian, Hunan , Jiangsu , Shandong, Sichuan, and Zhejiang cuisines. They are different because of many reasons, such as geographic features and climate which shaped the locals to specialize in certain ingredients or flavors, as well as religion and ethnic groups."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Helga Newmark, n\u00e9e Helga Hoflich, (1932\u20132012) was the first female Holocaust survivor ordained as a rabbi. \n\nShe was born in Germany, and was sent to the concentration camps of Westerbork, Bergen-Belsen, and Terezin (known in German as Theresienstadt) in Czechoslovakia.  She was freed at the age of twelve, and immigrated to America at the age of sixteen. When she had her first child, a daughter, she began to wonder how she would answer her daughter's questions about God. After considering several religions, she joined a [Conservative ] synagogue, Temple Emanuel in [Ridgefield Park, New Jersey] There she learned so much from the rabbi and his wife that she eventually became principal of the synagogue.\n\nShe was accepted to the Reform movement's Hebrew Union College - Jewish Institute of Religion on her second attempt, and was ordained in 2000 after eight years of study. She served as a rabbi at Barnert Temple in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, for two years.\n Question: Which temple was the first female holocaust survivor ordained as a rabbi?", "output": "Temple Emanuel in Ridgefield Park, NJ"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: St. John the Baptist, Blackrock is a Roman Catholic church in the parish of Blackrock, Ireland. The church is still in use and named after the Saint John the Baptist. It is located on Temple Road, Blackrock, County Dublin.\n\nThe church was designed by the architect Patrick Byrne, who was educated at the Dublin Society Schools. It is one of the finest examples of the Gothic revival style in Ireland and was the first to be built in the Dublin Archdiocese. It is said to be inspired by the ideas of Augustus Welby Pugin (1812-1852).\n\nThe initial building consisted of the nave, chancel and bell tower. To the rear of the church, two carved heads can be seen up high on either side of the rose window. The head on the left depicts St. John the Baptist, while the head on the right depicts the Archbishop Daniel Murray.\n Question: Which two people are depicted by carved heads near the windows?", "output": "St. John the Baptist and the Archbishop Daniel Murray"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sean Patrick Conley (born 1980) is an American physician and United States Navy officer who served as the Physician to the President from 2018 to 2021. Conley served as physician to president Donald Trump during the COVID-19 pandemic, often serving as the president's medical advisor, and treating the president when he tested positive for COVID-19.\n Question: Based on this paragraph, who was Donald Trump's physician during 2018 to 2021?", "output": "Sean Patrick Conley"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tripp attended The Hill School at Pottstown, Pennsylvania where he drew his attention for his talent as a football player. Tripp enrolled at the University of Chicago and played at the tackle for Amos Alonzo Stagg's 1902 football team. In January 1903, Tripp transferred to Yale University, where he played guard for Yale University's football teams in 1904 and 1905 after sitting out the 1903 season. He was captain of Yale's championship team of 1905, and was selected by Walter Camp as a first-team All-American in 1905. He later worked as a stockbroker He died in October 1962.\n Question: Given this reference text, give me a list of all the schools attended by Tripp.", "output": "The Hill School, University of Chicago, Yale University"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lavender is a light shade of purple or violet. It applies particularly to the color of the flower of the same name. The web color called lavender is displayed at right\u2014it matches the color of the very palest part of the lavender flower; however, the more saturated color shown below as floral lavender more closely matches the average color of the lavender flower as shown in the picture and is the tone of lavender historically and traditionally considered lavender by the average person as opposed to those who are website designers. The color lavender might be described as a medium purple or a light pinkish-purple. The term lavender may be used in general to apply to a wide range of pale, light or grayish-purples but only on the blue side. Lilac is pale purple on the pink side. In paints, the color lavender is made by mixing purple and white paint.\n\nThe first recorded use of the word lavender as a color term in English was in 1705.\n Question: What color is Lavendar?", "output": "Lavender is a light shade of purple or violet."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) is one of the most common methods to determine the physical and chemical properties of atoms by detecting the radio frequency absorbed and subsequent relaxation of nuclei in a magnetic field. This is one of the most commonly used characterisation techniques and has applications in numerous fields. Primarily, the strong magnetic fields are generated by supercooling electromagnets, although there are spectrometers that do not require cryogens. In traditional superconducting solenoids, liquid helium is used to cool the inner coils because it has a boiling point of around 4 K at ambient pressure. Cheap metallic superconductors can be used for the coil wiring. So-called high-temperature superconducting compounds can be made to super conduct with the use of liquid nitrogen, which boils at around 77 K.\nMagnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a complex application of NMR where the geometry of the resonances is deconvoluted and used to image objects by detecting the relaxation of protons that have been perturbed by a radio-frequency pulse in the strong magnetic field. This is most commonly used in health applications.\nIn large cities, it is difficult to transmit power by overhead cables, so underground cables are used. But underground cables get heated and the resistance of the wire increases, leading to waste of power. Superconductors could be used to increase power throughput, although they would require cryogenic liquids such as nitrogen or helium to cool special alloy-containing cables to increase power transmission. Several feasibility studies have been performed and the field is the subject of an agreement within the International Energy Agency.\n\nCryogenic gases delivery truck at a supermarket, Ypsilanti, Michigan\nCryogenic gases are used in transportation and storage of large masses of frozen food. When very large quantities of food must be transported to regions like war zones, earthquake hit regions, etc., they must be stored for a long time, so cryogenic food freezing is used. Cryogenic food freezing is also helpful for large scale food processing industries.\nMany infrared (forward looking infrared) cameras require their detectors to be cryogenically cooled.\nCertain rare blood groups are stored at low temperatures, such as \u2212165 \u00b0C, at blood banks.\nCryogenics technology using liquid nitrogen and CO2 has been built into nightclub effect systems to create a chilling effect and white fog that can be illuminated with colored lights.\nCryogenic cooling is used to cool the tool tip at the time of machining in manufacturing process. It increases the tool life. Oxygen is used to perform several important functions in the steel manufacturing process.\nMany rockets use cryogenic gases as propellants. These include liquid oxygen, liquid hydrogen, and liquid methane.\nBy freezing the automobile or truck tire in liquid nitrogen, the rubber is made brittle and can be crushed into small particles. These particles can be used again for other items.\nExperimental research on certain physics phenomena, such as spintronics and magnetotransport properties, requires cryogenic temperatures for the effects to be observed.\nCertain vaccines must be stored at cryogenic temperatures. For example, the Pfizer\u2013BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine must be stored at temperatures of \u221290 to \u221260 \u00b0C (\u2212130 to \u221276 \u00b0F). (See cold chain.)\n Question: what is use of cryogenics in virology ?", "output": "Certain vaccines must be only stored at cryogenic temperature (ultra low temperatures of order -90 to -60 degree celcius / -130 F to -76 F)"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wilson's first TV appearance was for GMA Network 7's Kakabakaba Adventure (2003) where she was a regular cast member until the show ended in 2004. Between 2003 and 2011, Wilson appeared and starred in several TV series and soap operas. With supporting roles in All Together Now (2004), Encantadia (2005), Darna (2005), Asian Treasures (2007) and Joaquin Bordado (2008). As part of the main cast in Saang Sulok ng Langit (2005), where she was nominated as Best TV Villain, My Guardian Abby (2006), Darna (2009) and Beauty Queen (2010).\n Question: When did Maggie Wilson first appear on TV?", "output": "Wilson first appeared on TV on Kakabakaba Adventure in 2003."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: GB Class 2 was a series of two trams and two trailers built by Skabo Jernbanevognfabrikk for Graakalbanen of Trondheim, Norway.\n\nEach of the four Siemens motors had an effect of 60 kW (80 hp). There were two compartments, both with four-abreast seating, with reversible seats. Despite running in part in city streets, the trams were 2.6 m (8 ft 6 in) wide. They had seating for 40 passengers.\n\nThe trams were ordered in 1941, and a single set of tram and trailer was delivered in May 1940. Not until 1947 were to additional trailers delivered. In 1950, the second motor was delivered from Siemens, and the first trailer could be rebuilt to a tram. The trams remained in service until 1973 when they were replaced by the TS Class 7 trams, following the merger of Graakalbanen into Trondheim Trafikkselskap, and the subsequent reorganizing of routes, so the Gr\u00e5kallen Line was operated onwards along the Lademoen Line. No. 5 is preserved as a heritage tram at Trondheim Tramway Museum, while no. 6 was scrapped in 1983.\n Question: What train is the GB Class 2", "output": "The GB Class 2 was a series of two trams and two trailers built by Skabo Jernbanevognfabrikk for Graakalbanen of Trondheim, Norway.\n\nEach of the four Siemens motors had an effect of 60 kW (80 hp). There were two compartments, both with four-abreast seating, with reversible seats. Despite running in part in city streets, the trams were 2.6 m (8 ft 6 in) wide. They had seating for 40 passengers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As a career, Waldo E. Koop was an engineer for Boeing. He was called one of the nation's finest researchers by local and state historians, and was credited in the series of Time Life books on the Old West for his research on gunfighters. Koop discovered that Henry McCarty, later known as Billy the Kid, spent time in Wichita, Kansas, where he saw his first gunfight. He published his findings in 1965 in the book, Billy the Kid: the Trail of a Kansas Legend.\n Question: Where did Waldo E. Koop work?", "output": "Waldo E. Koop was an engineer for Boeing before becoming one of the nation's finest researchers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the first video, Jiang lashed out at Hong Kong journalist Sharon Cheung in Zhongnanhai when he met with Chee-hwa Tung, Chief Executive of Hong Kong at that time. Ms. Cheung asked if Jiang supported Tung's campaign for Chief Executive, which Jiang affirmed. Cheung then asked if it meant the Chinese government had already decided internally to re-appoint Tung. This made Jiang very upset, and criticized her for twisting his words to \"make big news.\" Jiang then continued to criticize the Hong Kong media on the whole, claiming that they need to learn to ask more meaningful questions, even stating that \"Mike Wallace of the US is at a much higher level than you are\", referring to a 2000 interview Jiang gave with 60 Minutes.\nThe second is the famous interview by American journalist Mike Wallace that Jiang referred to in the previous video. In this interview, Wallace and Jiang talked about many touchy subjects, such as democracy and dictatorship in China, freedom of the press, Falun Gong, and the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests.\nThe third video is recorded when Jiang came back to China United Engineering Corporation (Jiang worked there for some years), and Jiang recalled his experience in the video. He also talks about Deng Xiaoping's decision to appoint him as leader of China, and what he considered his achievements during his years of leadership.\n Question: What is the biggest strength of Hong Kong journalists", "output": "Making big news"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wolffe was born on 21 June 1959 in Burton-on-Trent, Staffordshire, England. He was successful at biology early on, receiving the Biological Council Prize upon leaving secondary school. He then attended Oxford University, receiving a first class B.A. degree in 1981. He did his PhD under Prof. Jamshed Tata at the National Institute for Medical Research, London. He was awarded an EMBO long-term postdoctoral fellowship in 1984 and moved to the laboratory of Donald D. Brown at the Department of Embryology, Carnegie Institution of Washington in Baltimore. He joined the National Institute of Health in 1987, working firstly with Gary Felsenfeld in the Laboratory of Molecular Biology (National Institute of Arthritis, Diabetes and Metabolic Diseases). In 1990 he was appointed Chief of the newly founded Laboratory of Molecular Embryology (LME). He left NIH and moved to the biotechnology firm Sangamo BioSciences Inc. in Richmond, California, in 2000, as Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer. He was a prolific writer, publishing hundreds of articles, literature reviews and two books. He will be known mainly for his work in promoting the idea that chromatin plays a dynamic role in regulating gene expression.\n Question: Given this paragraph from Wikipedia, what was Alan Wolffe's primary research interest?", "output": "Wolffe was principally interested in chromatin and its role in gene expression"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Night Buffalo (orig. Spanish El B\u00fafalo de la Noche) is a novel by Guillermo Arriaga.\n\nPlot summary\nAfter Gregorio commits suicide, his friend Manuel finds himself unraveling his late friend\u2019s world, and what led him to suicide. Gregorio\u2019s tortuous relationship with his girlfriend is now inherited by Manuel; he becomes involved with his late friend\u2019s girlfriend. Gregorio has missed appointments, left strange messages, and has been harassed by a vengeful policeman.\n Question: Given this plot summary from The Night Buffalo, what caused Manuel to discover these occurrences caused by his late friend?", "output": "Gregorio committed suicide, this caused Manuel to go down a path of discoveries uncovering what led him to suicide."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Joanne Rowling CH OBE FRSL (/\u02c8ro\u028al\u026a\u014b/ \"rolling\"; born 31 July 1965), also known by her pen name J. K. Rowling, is a British author and philanthropist. She wrote Harry Potter, a seven-volume children's fantasy series published from 1997 to 2007. The series has sold over 600 million copies, been translated into 84 languages, and spawned a global media franchise including films and video games. The Casual Vacancy (2012) was her first novel for adults. She writes Cormoran Strike, an ongoing crime fiction series, under the alias Robert Galbraith.\n Question: Who is J.K.Rowling?", "output": "Joanne Rowling a.k.a J.K.Rowling is the famous author of Harry Potter books."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Macquarie University Real Tennis Club (formerly the Sydney Real Tennis Club) played real tennis at Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia. Its only court closed on 31 December 2005, converted to other athletic uses. However, the university has agreed to provide land for another court as well as A$350,000 toward its construction. The club is working to provide additional funds required to begin construction.\n Question: Given this paragraph on Macquarie University Real Tennis Club, please tell me how many tennis courts the club had.", "output": "Based on this paragraph, it appears that the Macquarie University Real Tennis Club had only one tennis court."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: 1981 Iraqi embassy bombing in Beirut\n\nArticle\nTalk\nRead\nEdit\nView history\n\nTools\nFrom Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia\n(Redirected from 1981 Iraqi embassy bombing)\nIraqi embassy bombing in Beirut\nPart of Lebanese Civil War and spillover of the Iran\u2013Iraq War\nLocation\tBeirut, Lebanon\nCoordinates\t33\u00b052\u203231\u2033N 35\u00b029\u203203\u2033ECoordinates: 33\u00b052\u203231\u2033N 35\u00b029\u203203\u2033E\nDate\tDecember 15, 1981; 41 years ago\nAttack type\tSuicide car bomb\nDeaths\t61\nInjured\t100+\nPerpetrator\tAl-Dawa\nvte\nLebanese Civil War\nvte\nIran\u2013Iraq War\nOn December 15, 1981, the Iraqi Shi'a Islamist group al-Dawa carried out a suicide car bombing targeting the Iraqi embassy in Beirut, Lebanon. The explosion leveled the embassy and killed 61 people, including Iraq's ambassador to Lebanon, and injured at least 100 others.\n\nThe attack is considered by some to be the second modern suicide bombing, preceded by the 1927 Bath School bombings and presaged the 1983 United States embassy bombing and the 1983 Beirut barracks bombings.\n\nBackground\nEmboldened by the success of the 1979 Iranian Revolution, the anti-Baathist Shi'a Islamist group al-Dawa, with financial and military assistance from the Islamic Republic of Iran, began to employ violence in its struggle against the Iraqi government. In 1979 and 1980, al-Dawa assassinated a number of \"senior but low-profile\" Baathist officials in Iraq. In response to a failed assassination attempt on Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz in April 1980 by al-Dawa, the Iraqi government launched a severe crackdown on the group, which included the execution of al-Dawa spiritual leader Mohammad Baqir al-Sadr.\n\nThe remaining al-Dawa leadership fled to Iran and the group became an \"effective proxy\" for the Iranian government against Iraq during the Iran\u2013Iraq War, which broke out in September 1980.\n\nBombing\nOn December 15, 1981, a car filled with approximately 100 kilograms of explosives was driven into Iraq's embassy building in Beirut by a suicide bomber. The ensuing explosion devastated the embassy, killed 61 people, including the Iraq ambassador, Abdul Razzak Lafta, and injured more than 100 others. Balqis al-Rawi, the Iraqi wife of Syrian poet Nizar Qabbani, who worked for the embassy's cultural section, was also killed in the attack.\n\nImpact\nThe attack, which presaged the 1983 United States embassy bombing and the 1983 Beirut barracks bombing, is considered by some to be the first modern suicide bombing, though others nominate earlier attacks.\n Question: How was the Iraqi embassy in Beirut destroyed?", "output": "On December 15, 1981, a car filled with approximately 100 kilograms of explosives was driven into Iraq's embassy building in Beirut by a suicide bomber. The ensuing explosion devastated the embassy, killed 61 people, including the Iraq ambassador, Abdul Razzak Lafta, and injured more than 100 others."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The company was incorporated as Tesla Motors, Inc. on July 1, 2003, by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning. Eberhard and Tarpenning served as CEO and CFO, respectively. Eberhard said he wanted to build \"a car manufacturer that is also a technology company\", with its core technologies as \"the battery, the computer software, and the proprietary motor\".\n\nIan Wright was Tesla's third employee, joining a few months later. In February 2004, the company raised $7.5 million in series A funding, including $6.5 million from Elon Musk, who had received $100 million from the sale of his interest in PayPal two years earlier. Musk became the chairman of the board of directors and the largest shareholder of Tesla. J. B. Straubel joined Tesla in May 2004 as chief technical officer.\n\nA lawsuit settlement agreed to by Eberhard and Tesla in September 2009 allows all five \u2013 Eberhard, Tarpenning, Wright, Musk, and Straubel \u2013 to call themselves co-founders.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the founding of Tesla, who was the chairman of the board of directors as of March 2004?", "output": "Elon Musk"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In late January 2017, Rahm won the Farmers Insurance Open with a 60-foot eagle putt on the final hole to notch his maiden PGA Tour title. He jumped from 137th to 46th in the Official World Golf Ranking with the win, and also gained entry into the Masters Tournament, The Players Championship, the PGA Championship, and World Golf Championships events. On 2 March, Rahm played in his first World Golf Championships event at the WGC-Mexico Championship where he shot rounds of 67-70-67-68 (\u221212) to finish T3, two strokes behind winner Dustin Johnson.\n Question: How did Jon Rahm win the Farmers Insurance Open?", "output": "a 60-foot eagle putt on the final hole"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Li Xueju (simplified Chinese: \u674e\u5b66\u4e3e; traditional Chinese: \u674e\u5b78\u8209; pinyin: L\u01d0 Xu\u00e9j\u01d4; born April 1945) is a politician of the People's Republic of China, and the former Minister of Civil Affairs of PRC.\n\nBorn in Gongzhuling, Jilin Province, Li joined the Chinese Communist Party in January 1966, and started working in May 1966. In early years, he served in various posts in local commune. In 1975, he was promoted to Secretary of Communist Youth League committee in Siping region of Jilin. From 1978, he served as vice section chief, vice director and later, director of organization department of CYL central committee. From 1984 to 1986, he studied at CCP Central Party School. In 1986, he was appointed as the director of general office of CYL central committee. He was a member of 10th CYL central committee, and a standing member of 11th and 12th CYL central committee.\n Question: Who is the Chinese Li Xueju", "output": "Li Xueju born April 1945 is a politician of the People's Republic of China, and the former Minister of Civil Affairs of PRC.\n\nBorn in Gongzhuling, Jilin Province, Li joined the Chinese Communist Party in January 1966, and started working in May 1966. In early years, he served in various posts in local commune. In 1975, he was promoted to Secretary of Communist Youth League committee in Siping region of Jilin. \n\nFrom 1978, he served as vice section chief, vice director and later, director of organization department of CYL central committee. From 1984 to 1986, he studied at CCP Central Party School. In 1986, he was appointed as the director of general office of CYL central committee. He was a member of 10th CYL central committee, and a standing member of 11th and 12th CYL central committee."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Shivaji I (Shivaji Bhonsle; Marathi pronunciation: c.19 February 1630 \u2013 3 April 1680), also referred to as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, was an Indian ruler and a member of the Bhonsle Maratha clan. Eventually, Shivaji carved out his own independent kingdom from the declining Adilshahi sultanate of Bijapur which formed the genesis of the Maratha Empire. In 1674, he was formally crowned the Chhatrapati of his realm at Raigad Fort.\n\nOver the course of his life, Shivaji engaged in both alliances and hostilities with the Mughal Empire, the Sultanate of Golkonda, Sultanate of Bijapur and the European colonial powers. Shivaji's military forces expanded the Maratha sphere of influence, capturing and building forts, and forming a Maratha navy. Shivaji established a competent and progressive civil rule with well-structured administrative organisations. He revived ancient Hindu political traditions, court conventions and promoted the usage of the Marathi and Sanskrit languages, replacing Persian in court and administration.\n\nShivaji's legacy was to vary by observer and time, but nearly two centuries after his death, he began to take on increased importance with the emergence of the Indian independence movement, as many Indian nationalists elevated him as a proto-nationalist and hero of the Hindus.\n Question: Given a reference text about Shivaji, tell me when they were born, when they died, what their most notable accomplishment and what people called them post-death.", "output": "Shivaji was born on 19th February 1630 and died on 3rd April 1680. Shivaji accomplished to  out his own independent kingdom from the declining Adilshahi sultanate of Bijapur which formed the genesis of the Maratha Empire. He is called as proto-nationalist and hero of the Hindus."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Robert Toru Kiyosaki (born April 8, 1947) is an American entrepreneur, businessman and author. Kiyosaki is the founder of Rich Global LLC and the Rich Dad Company, a private financial education company that provides personal finance and business education to people through books and videos. The company's main revenues come from franchisees of the Rich Dad seminars that are conducted by independent individuals using Kiyosaki's brand name. He is also the creator of the Cashflow board and software games to educate adults and children about business and financial concepts.\n\nKiyosaki is the author of more than 26 books, including the international self-published personal finance Rich Dad Poor Dad series of books which has been translated into 51 languages and sold over 41 million copies worldwide. Kiyosaki is the subject of a class action suit filed by people who attended his seminars and has been the subject of two investigative documentaries by CBC Canada and WTAE USA. Kiyosaki's company, Rich Global LLC, filed for bankruptcy in 2012.\n Question: Given this paragraph, explain who Robert Kiyosaki is?", "output": "Robert Kiyosaki is an American entrepreneur and author who became famous primarily due to his book Rich Dad Poor Dad which has sold over 41 million copies. He is also the founder of Rich Global LLC and the Rich Dad Company, which provide financial education through books and videos. He is undergoing lawsuits related to these companies which in turn are gaining him more press due to documentaries produced on the subject of these lawsuits."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"The Central Otago wine region is broken into multiple sub-regions, each with its own climate and characteristics.\n\nBannockburn is a small Geographical Indication on the southern banks of the Kawarau River near Cromwell and is a very warm area that was known by gold miners as \"\"the Heart of the Desert\"\". Grapes ripen early on sandy, silty loam soils. The elevation ranges from 220 to 370 metres (720 to 1,210 ft).\nBendigo lies east of the Clutha River / Mata-Au and Lake Dunstan, with grapes planted at both medium elevation (220 metres (720 ft)) and high elevation terraces (330 to 350 metres (1,080 to 1,150 ft)). This warm area has semi arid soils at variable depths, with free draining soils at the lower levels and shallower soils at higher elevations. The Bendigo sub-region includes the vineyards at Tarras and Maori Point.\nGibbston is a tight valley enclosed by mountainous terrain. About 250 hectares of vines are planted on sloping land on the southern bank of the Kawarau River. Gibbston is the coolest and highest of the sub-regions with vineyards between 320 and 420 metres (1,050 and 1,380 ft) altitude. It is sometimes referred to as the Queenstown subregion.\nW\u0101naka, the smallest of the sub-regions, has vineyards planted between the banks of Lake W\u0101naka and the town of Luggate to the east. Ranging between 290 to 320 metres (950 to 1,050 ft) above sea level, the vineyards have a similar but slightly warmer climate than those at Gibbston.\nThe Alexandra Basin is surrounded by the Clutha River / Mata-Au and Manuherikia River and regularly records New Zealand's hottest summer temperatures. Schist outcrops dominate the arid landscape. A wide diurnal shift moderates the high temperatures.\nThe Cromwell Basin contains the highest concentration of vines, in an area bounded by the Kawarau River, Lake Dunstan and the Pisa mountain range. It is a warm district characterised by semi arid, high terraces and moraines and gently sloping fans.\"\n Question: What are the four major subregions in Central Otago?", "output": "The Central Otago wine region is broken into multiple sub-regions: Bannockburn, Bendigo, Bendigo and W\u0101naka"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Spaghetti is a long, thin, solid, cylindrical pasta. It is a staple food of traditional Italian cuisine. Like other pasta, spaghetti is made of milled wheat, water, and sometimes enriched with vitamins and minerals. Italian spaghetti is typically made from durum-wheat semolina. Usually the pasta is white because refined flour is used, but whole wheat flour may be added. Spaghettoni is a thicker form of spaghetti, while spaghettini is a thinner form. Capellini is a very thin spaghetti, sometimes known colloquially as \"angel hair pasta\".\n Question: Given a reference text about spaghetti, what shape is it, where did it originate, and are there any variations of it?", "output": "The shape of spaghetti is long, thin, and cylindrical. It traditionally comes from Italy and has a two variations - those being Spaghettoni, which is thicker, and capellini, which is thiner and sometime called 'angel hair pasta'."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Fyre Festival was a fraudulent luxury music festival founded by con artist Billy McFarland and rapper Ja Rule. It was created with the intent of promoting the company's Fyre app for booking music talent. The festival was scheduled to take place on April 28\u201330 and May 5\u20137, 2017, on the Bahamian island of Great Exuma.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Fyre Festival, would you say that it was a successful event?", "output": "No, Fyre Festival was a fraudulent luxury music festival founded by con artist Billy McFarland and rapper Ja Rule"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In December 1631, Mount Vesuvius in Italy erupted. The eruption began on 16 December 1631 and culminated the day after. The Volcanic Explosivity Index was VEI-5, and it was a Plinian eruption that buried many villages under the resulting lava flows. It is estimated that between 4,000 people were killed by the eruption, making it the highest death toll for a volcanic disaster in the Mediterranean in the last 1800 years.[citation needed] The 1631 eruption was considered to be of minor proportions regarding its eruptive magnitude and erupted volumes compared to the AD 79 eruption, but the damage was not.[citation needed] By the 1631 eruption, the summit of Mount Vesuvius had been reduced by 450m, making its total height lower than that of Mount Somma.\n Question: Given the reference text below the eruption of Mount Vesuvius, how high was the mountain after the disaster?", "output": "Mount Vesuvius had a reduced summit by 450 meters."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tesla's approach to achieve full autonomy is different from that of other companies. Whereas Waymo, Cruise, and other companies are relying on highly detailed (centimeter-scale) three-dimensional maps, lidar, and cameras, as well as radar and ultrasonic sensors in their autonomous vehicles, Tesla's approach is to use coarse-grained two-dimensional maps and cameras (no lidar) as well as radar and ultrasonic sensors. Tesla claims that although its approach is much more difficult, it will ultimately be more useful, because its vehicles will be able to self-drive without geofencing concerns. Tesla's self-driving software has been trained on over 20 billion miles driven by Tesla vehicles as of January 2021. Tesla also designed a self-driving computer chip that has been installed in its cars since March 2019.\n Question: How is Tesla's approach to full autonomy is different from the other companies?", "output": "Tesla uses e coarse-grained two-dimensional maps and cameras (no lidar) as well as radar and ultrasonic sensors whereas its competitors rely on highly detailed  (centimeter-scale) three-dimensional maps, lidar, and cameras"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Britney Jean Spears (born December 2, 1981) is an American singer, actress, and dancer. Often referred to as the \"Princess of Pop\", she is credited with influencing the revival of teen pop during the late 1990s and early 2000s. After appearing in stage productions and television series, Spears signed with Jive Records in 1997 at age fifteen. Her first two studio albums, ...Baby One More Time (1999) and Oops!... I Did It Again (2000), are among the best-selling albums of all time and made Spears the best-selling teenage artist of all time. With first-week sales of over 1.3 million copies, Oops!... I Did It Again held the record for the fastest-selling album by a female artist in the United States for fifteen years. Spears adopted a more mature and provocative style for her albums Britney (2001) and In the Zone (2003), and starred in the 2002 film Crossroads.\n Question: Given a reference text about Britney Spears, tell me when they were born and why they are famous.", "output": "Britney Spears was born December 2, 1981 she is famous for being the \"princess of pop\" and being the best selling teenage artist of all time."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: James Henry Richards (3 January 1855 \u2013 24 August 1923) was an English cricketer. Richards' batting and bowling styles are unknown. He was born at Brixton, Surrey.\n\nRichards made two first-class appearances for Surrey in 1881, against Middlesex at Lord's, and Lancashire at Old Trafford. In his first match, Surrey won the toss and elected to bat first, making 157 all out, with Richards scoring a single run before he was dismissed by Augustus Ford. Middlesex responded in their first-innings by making 192 all out, with Richards taking the wickets of A. J. Webbe and Isaac Walker to finish with figures of 2/40 from 28 overs. Surrey then made just 79 all out in their second-innings, with Richards being dismissed by James Robertson for a duck. This left Middlesex requiring just 45 for victory, which they reached without losing any wickets. In his second match, Lancashire won the toss and elected to bat first, making 324 all out, with Richards bowling fourteen wicketless overs. Surrey responded in their first-innings by making just 69 all out, with Richards being dismissed for 8 runs by Alexander Watson. Forced to follow-on in their second-innings, Surrey were dismissed for 130, with Richards dismissed for a duck by Dick Barlow. Lancashire won the match by an innings and 125 runs.\n\nHe died at Tulse Hill, London, on 24 August 1923.\n Question: Given a reference text about James Henry Richards, tell me what sport he played, where he was born and where he died.", "output": "James Henry Richards played cricket. He was born in Brixton, Surrey and died in Tulse Hill, London."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the House is an American television sitcom that originally aired on NBC from April 10, 1995 and moved to UPN after its second season. The show starred LL Cool J as Marion Hill a former professional football player with the Oakland Raiders. Because of his financial predicament, he is forced to rent out most of the rooms in his house to newly divorced single mother Jackie Warren (Debbie Allen) and her two children, Tiffany (Maia Campbell) and Austin (Jeffery Wood). In the third season, Jackie and Austin move to Nashville, leaving Tiffany to stay with Marion in order to finish school in Los Angeles; Marion purchases a sports rehabilitation facility with the boisterous Tonia (Kim Wayans) and the pompous Maxwell (Alfonso Ribeiro), leading to the trio's attempts to work together despite their clashing personalities.\n Question: Given a reference text about In the House, when was it originally on TV and what channel played it?", "output": "In the House was aired on NBC on April 10, 1995"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Brownstown Marl is a geologic formation in Arkansas. It preserves fossils dating back to the Cretaceous period.\n Question: Which state is named in the passage?", "output": "Arkansas"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cardiovascular diseases are the most common cause of death globally as of 2008, accounting for 30% of deaths. Of these more than three-quarters are a result of coronary artery disease and stroke. Risk factors include: smoking, being overweight, little exercise, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, and poorly controlled diabetes, among others. Cardiovascular diseases do not frequently have symptoms but may cause chest pain or shortness of breath. Diagnosis of heart disease is often done by the taking of a medical history, listening to the heart-sounds with a stethoscope, ECG, echocardiogram, and ultrasound. Specialists who focus on diseases of the heart are called cardiologists, although many specialties of medicine may be involved in treatment.\n Question: Given this paragraph about heart, for how many deaths (in %) as of 2008 do cardiovascular diseases account for?", "output": "30%"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the UK, the recommended daily values for magnesium are 300 mg for men and 270 mg for women. In the U.S. the Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) are 400 mg for men ages 19\u201330 and 420 mg for older; for women 310 mg for ages 19\u201330 and 320 mg for older.\n Question: Given this paragraph, what is the recommended daily value of magnesium for women in the UK?", "output": "The daily recommended value for magnesium is 270 mg for women in the UK."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the 2011 NBA Finals, Dallas once again faced the Miami Heat, which had acquired All-Stars LeBron James and Chris Bosh before the season began. During a Game 1 loss in Miami, Nowitzki tore a tendon in his left middle finger; however, MRIs were negative, and Nowitzki vowed that the injury would not be a factor. In Game 2, he led a Dallas rally from an 88\u201373 fourth-quarter deficit, making a driving left-handed layup over Bosh to tie the series at 1. Miami took a 2\u20131 series lead after Nowitzki missed a potential game-tying shot at the end of Game 3. Despite carrying a 101 \u00b0F (38 \u00b0C) fever in Game 4, he hit the winning basket to tie the series yet again at 2, evoking comparisons to Michael Jordan's \"Flu Game\" against Utah in the 1997 NBA Finals. Dallas went on to win the next two games, with Nowitzki scoring 10 fourth-quarter points in the series-clinching game in Miami. The championship was the first in the history of the franchise. Nowitzki was named NBA Finals Most Valuable Player.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the 2011 NBA Finals, who won the championship and the NBA Finals Most Valuable Player award?", "output": "The Dallas Mavericks won the 2011 NBA championship and the NBA Finals Most Valuable Player award was given to Dirk Nowitzki."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Thomas Edward Patrick Brady Jr. (born August 3, 1977) is a former American football quarterback who played in the National Football League (NFL) for 23 seasons. He spent his first 20 seasons with the New England Patriots and was a central contributor to the franchise's dynasty from 2001 to 2019. In his final three seasons, he was a member of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Brady is widely regarded as the greatest quarterback of all time.\n Question: Given a reference text about Tom Brady, tell me when they were born and what they are famous for.", "output": "Tom Brady was born on August 3rd, 1977. He is famous for being the greatest quarterback of all time."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: He enrolled in University of California, Davis (UC Davis) initially studying biology, followed by anthropology, and ending with a focus on fine art. While attending UC Davis, Gilhooly served as artist Robert Arneson's assistant starting in 1963. He graduated from UC Davis with a BA degree in 1965, and an MA degree in 1967.\n Question: What college did David Gilhooly go to?", "output": "David Gilhooly went to the University of California, Davis (UC Davis)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pampaneira is a village located in the province of Granada, Spain. According to the 2005 census (INE), the village has a population of 355 inhabitants.\n\nIt is one of three mountain villages of the Barranco de Poqueira in the Alpujarras region. The other two villages, Bubi\u00f3n and Capileira, are located higher in the Poqueira gorge.\n\nThe Poqueira gorge starts below the mountain peak of Mulhac\u00e9n, where the river Poqueira rises. There are many opportunities for hiking in the area. Guided walks are arranged by the local tourist offices which also sell mountain hiking equipment. Other companies can plan self-guided treks through the area. The nearest major town is \u00d3rgiva. One of the highest all year-round lived-in mountain village in Spain, Trev\u00e9lez is located nearby in the mountains to the east of the three villages.\n\nAccommodation is available in all of the three villages but Capileira has the biggest range of facilities.\n\nAt the north side opens the Sierra Nevada (Spain) range with one of the highest peaks in Spain ; Mulhac\u00e9n and Alcazaba (Sierra Nevada).\n\nThe village is located at about 1060 metres above sea level.\n\nThere are many craft shops selling ceramics, leather and clothes. Also on offer are the locally produced specialities of cheese and ham.\n\nDuring the winter the Sierra Nevada and the Alpujarra mountains get covered in snow but the villages are rarely affected by snow for more than a few days a time.\n\nThere are bus connections running every day from the town of Granada, Spain.\n Question: Given a reference text about Pampaneira, tell me how many people live there, where it's located, and its elevation above sea level.", "output": "Pampaneira is located in the province of Granada, Spain and is 1060 metres above sea level. 355 people live in Pampaneira according to the 2005 census."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jens Stub (3 March 1764 \u2013 24 October 1819) was a Norwegian priest and politician. He was vicar on the island of Ve\u00f8ya and served as a representative at the Norwegian Constitutional Assembly at Eidsvoll in 1814.\n Question: In what month did Jens Stub die?", "output": "Jens Stub died in October."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cricket is a bat-and-ball game played between two teams of eleven players on a field at the centre of which is a 22-yard (20-metre) pitch with a wicket at each end, each comprising two bails balanced on three stumps. The batting side scores runs by striking the ball bowled at one of the wickets with the bat and then running between the wickets, while the bowling and fielding side tries to prevent this (by preventing the ball from leaving the field, and getting the ball to either wicket) and dismiss each batter (so they are \"out\"). Means of dismissal include being bowled, when the ball hits the stumps and dislodges the bails, and by the fielding side either catching the ball after it is hit by the bat, but before it hits the ground, or hitting a wicket with the ball before a batter can cross the crease in front of the wicket. When ten batters have been dismissed, the innings ends and the teams swap roles. The game is adjudicated by two umpires, aided by a third umpire and match referee in international matches. They communicate with two off-field scorers who record the match's statistical information.\n\nForms of cricket range from Twenty20, with each team batting for a single innings of 20 overs (each \"over\" being a set of 6 fair opportunities for the batting team to score) and the game generally lasting three hours, to Test matches played over five days. Traditionally cricketers play in all-white kit, but in limited overs cricket they wear club or team colours. In addition to the basic kit, some players wear protective gear to prevent injury caused by the ball, which is a hard, solid spheroid made of compressed leather with a slightly raised sewn seam enclosing a cork core layered with tightly wound string.\n Question: What is Cricket in sports?", "output": "Cricket is highly popular game that's originated in south-eastern counties of England and now prominent sport in a number of countries in particular south asian countries like India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.\nIt is in essence a bat-and-ball game played between two teams of eleven players on a field. The batting side scores runs by striking the ball with the bat and then running between the wickets, while the bowling and fielding side tries to prevent this and dismiss each batter.\nForms of cricket range from Twenty20, one day to Test match lasting up to 5 days. The game originated as children's game is now a highly competitive professional sport followed by billions of people and in last decade commercialised at club level with the introduction of Indian Premier League (IPL)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Doleshwor Mahadeva (Nepali: \u0921\u094b\u0932\u0947\u0936\u094d\u0935\u0930 \u092e\u0939\u093e\u0926\u0947\u0935) is a Hindu Temple of Lord Shiva located in Suryabinayak, south eastern part of Bhaktapur District, Nepal, and is believed to be the head part of Kedarnath temple located in Uttarakhand, India.\n\nHistory\nFor 4000 years people have been searching for the head of the Panch Kedar temples, a bull who was Shiva in reality, who assumed the shape of a bull to avoid the five Pandava brothers, the heroes of the Mahabharat. The legend goes back to the fabled battle of Kurukshetra fought between the five Pandava brothers and their cousins, the 100 Kaurava brothers, which is the pivot of the Mahabharata. Many folk legends related to the Garhwal region, Lord Shiva and the creation of the Panch Kedar temples are narrated.\n\nA folk legend about Panch Kedar relates to the Pandavas, the heroes of the Hindu epic Mahabharata. The Pandavas defeated and slayed their cousins \u2014 the Kauravas in the epic Kurukshetra war. They wished to atone for the sins of committing fratricide (gotra hatya) and Br\u0101hmanahatya (killing of Brahmins \u2014 the priest class) during the war. Thus, they handed over the reins of their kingdom to their kin and left in search of lord Shiva and to seek his blessings. First, they went to the holy city of Varanasi (Kashi), believed to be Shiva's favourite city and known for its Kashi Vishwanath Temple. But, Shiva wanted to avoid them as he was deeply incensed by the death and dishonesty at the Kurukshetra war and was, therefore, insensitive to Pandavas' prayers. Therefore, he assumed the form of a bull (Nandi) and hid in the Garhwal region.\n\nNot finding Shiva in Varanasi, the Pandavas went to Garhwal Himalayas. Bhima, the second of the five Pandava brothers, then standing astride two mountains started to look for Shiva. He saw a bull grazing near Guptakashi (\u201chidden Kashi\u201d \u2014 the name derived from the hiding act of Shiva). Bhima immediately recognized the bull to be Shiva. Bhima caught hold of the bull by its tail and hind legs. But the bull-formed Shiva disappeared into the ground to later reappear in parts, with the hump raising in Kedarnath, the arms appearing in Tungnath, the face showing up at Rudranath, the nabhi (navel) and stomach surfacing in Madhyamaheshwar and the hair appearing in Kalpeshwar. The Pandavas pleased with this reappearance in five different forms, built temples at the five places for venerating and worshipping Shiva. The Pandavas were thus freed from their sins. It is also believed that the fore portions of Shiva appeared at Doleshwor Mahadeva Temple, Bhaktapur district Nepal.\n\nA variant of the tale credits Bhima of not only catching the bull, but also stopping it from disappearing. Consequently, the bull was torn asunder into five parts and appeared at five locations in the Kedar Khand of Garhwal region of the Himalayas. After building the Panch Kedar Temples, the Pandavas meditated at Kedarnath for salvation, performed yagna (fire sacrifice) and then through the heavenly path called the Mahapanth (also called Swargarohini), attained heaven or salvation.[citation needed]. The Panch Kedar Temples are constructed in the North-Indian Himalayan Temple architecture with the Kedarnath, Tungnath and Madhyamaheshwar temples looking similar.\n\nAfter completing the pilgrimage of Lord Shiva's darshan at the Panch Kedar Temples, it is an unwritten religious rite to visit Lord Vishnu at the Badrinath Temple, as a final affirmatory proof by the devotee that he has sought blessings of Lord Shiva.\n\nResearch and findings\nThe Hindu activist Bharat Jangam had been researching and claiming that Doleshwar Mahadev is the head part of Kedarnath based on the surprising links between Kedarnath and Doleshwor. The Sculptures of Shive found in both shrines are 4,000 years old. Even a stone scripture found in Doleshwor was written in Sanskrit and Old Nepalese. The priests in both shrines are selected from India's southern states of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Both priests affix the word \u2018ling\u2019 after their names to convey their proximity to the god as his worshipper and both temples have a cluster of five Shiva shrines. The main deity of both priests is Birbhadra, a companion of Shiva, according to Hindu scriptures. \n\nRecognition\nOn August 22, 2009 the head priest of Kedarnath peeth Shree 1008 Jagat Guru Bheemashankarling Shivacharya unveiled the plaque claiming that Doleswore Mahadev, located in Jangam math Bhaktapur, is the head part of Shri Kedarnath. He performed Rudra Abhishek, a special worshipping at the Doleshwor temple situated in Sipadol village of Bhaktapur district. This is also mentioned in the inscription (Sheela Lekh) at Doleshwar Mahadev. Thousands of devotees have been thronging in the Doleswor Mahadev Temple.\n Question: What's unique about it and why is it famous?", "output": "It is believed that Doleshwor Mahadeva is the head part of Kedarnath temple located in Uttarakhand, India, and Kedarnath is one of the most famous Shiva temple."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mount St. Helens (known as Lawetlat'la to the indigenous Cowlitz people, and Loowit or Louwala-Clough to the Klickitat) is an active stratovolcano located in Skamania County, Washington, in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States. It lies 52 miles (83 km) northeast of Portland, Oregon, and 98 miles (158 km) south of Seattle. Mount St. Helens takes its English name from that of the British diplomat Lord St Helens, a friend of explorer George Vancouver who surveyed the area in the late 18th century. The volcano is part of the Cascade Volcanic Arc, a segment of the Pacific Ring of Fire.\n\nThe Mount St. Helens major eruption of May 18, 1980 remains the deadliest and most economically destructive volcanic event in U.S. history. Fifty-seven people were killed; 200 homes, 47 bridges, 15 miles (24 km) of railways, and 185 miles (298 km) of highway were destroyed. A massive debris avalanche, triggered by a magnitude 5.1 earthquake, caused a lateral eruption that reduced the elevation of the mountain's summit from 9,677 ft (2,950 m) to 8,363 ft (2,549 m), leaving a 1 mile (1.6 km) wide horseshoe-shaped crater. The debris avalanche was 0.6 cubic miles (2.5 km3) in volume. The 1980 eruption disrupted terrestrial ecosystems near the volcano. By contrast, aquatic ecosystems in the area greatly benefited from the amounts of ash, allowing life to multiply rapidly. Six years after the eruption, most lakes in the area had returned to their normal state.\n\nAfter its 1980 eruption, the volcano experienced continuous volcanic activity until 2008. Geologists predict that future eruptions will be more destructive, as the configuration of the lava domes requires more pressure to erupt. However, Mount St. Helens is a popular hiking spot and it is climbed year-round. In 1982, the Mount St. Helens National Volcanic Monument was established by President Ronald Reagan and the U.S. Congress.\n Question: Is Mount Saint Helens still active?", "output": "Mount St. Helens, located in the sate of Washington is considered an active volcano."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Joseph Robinette Biden Jr. was born on November 20, 1942, at St. Mary's Hospital in Scranton, Pennsylvania, to Catherine Eugenia \"Jean\" Biden (n\u00e9e Finnegan) and Joseph Robinette Biden Sr. The oldest child in a Catholic family, he has a sister, Valerie, and two brothers, Francis and James. Jean was of Irish descent, while Joseph Sr. had English, Irish, and French Huguenot ancestry. Biden's paternal line has been traced to stonemason William Biden, who was born in 1789 in Westbourne, England, and emigrated to Maryland in the United States by 1820.\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Biden\n Question: Based on this paragraph, what was Joe Biden's mother's maiden's name, what city was he born in, how many siblings did he have growing up, and what religion was he as a child?", "output": "Based on this paragraph, Joe Biden's mother's maiden name was Finnegan, he was born in the city of Stranton, he had three siblings (a younger sister and two younger brothers), and he was raised as a member of the Catholic church."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wallis and Futuna is located about two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand. It is 13\u00b018\u2032S 176\u00b012\u2032W Coordinates: 13\u00b018\u2032S 176\u00b012\u2032W, 360 km (220 mi) west of Samoa and 480 km (300 mi) northeast of Fiji.\n\nThe territory includes the island of Uv\u00e9a (also called Wallis), which is the most populous; the island of Futuna; the virtually uninhabited island of Alofi; and 20 uninhabited islets. The total area of the territory is 274 square kilometres (106 sq mi), with 129 kilometres (80 mi) of coastline. The highest point in the territory is Mont Puke, on the island of Futuna, at 524 metres (1,719 ft).\n\nThe islands have a hot, rainy season from November to April, when tropical cyclones passing over them cause storms. Then they have a cool, dry season from May to October, caused by the southeast trade winds that predominate during those months. The average annual rainfall is between 2,500 and 3,000 millimetres (98\u2013118  in), and rain is likely on at least 260 days per year. The average humidity is 80%. The average annual temperature is 26.6 \u00b0C (79.9 \u00b0F), rarely falling below 24.0 \u00b0C (75.2 \u00b0F); during the rainy season, it ranges between 28.0 \u00b0C (82.4 \u00b0F) and 32.0 \u00b0C (89.6 \u00b0F).\n\nOnly 5% of the islands' land area consists of arable land; permanent crops cover another 20%. Deforestation is a serious problem: Only small portions of the original forests remain, largely because the inhabitants use wood as their main fuel source, and, as a result, the mountainous terrain of Futuna is particularly susceptible to erosion. The island of Alofi lacks natural freshwater resources, so it has no permanent settlements.\n\nVolcanic activity during the mid-Pleistocene created numerous volcanic crater lakes on Uvea (Wallis Island). The names of some of them are: Lalolalo, Lano, Lanutavake, Lanutuli, Lanumaha, Kikila, and Alofivai.\n\nWallis and Futuna is part of the Fiji tropical moist forests terrestrial ecoregion.\n Question: When is the best time to go to Wallis and Futuna", "output": "It is best to go from May to October in the dry season. The temperature are lower but at least it is not raining so often."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Phrynobatrachus tokba is a species of frog in the family Phrynobatrachidae. It is found in West Africa from Ghana westward to C\u00f4te d'Ivoire, Liberia, Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Guinea-Bissau. Common names Tokba river frog, Tokba puddle frog, and\u2014when referring to the formerly recognized Phrynobatrachus alticola, forest river frog\u2014have been proposed for it.\n Question: Given a reference text about phrynobatrachus tokba, what are common names for it?", "output": "Common names for Phrynobatrachus tokba are Tokba river frog, Tokba puddle frog, and forest river frog."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The village school was closed during much of the war but re-opened in autumn 1944. Gorbachev did not want to return but when he did he excelled academically. He read voraciously, moving from the Western novels of Thomas Mayne Reid to the works of Vissarion Belinsky, Alexander Pushkin, Nikolai Gogol, and Mikhail Lermontov. In 1946, he joined the Komsomol, the Soviet political youth organization, becoming leader of his local group and then being elected to the Komsomol committee for the district. From primary school he moved to the high school in Molotovskoye; he stayed there during the week while walking the 19 km (12 mi) home during weekends. As well as being a member of the school's drama society, he organized sporting and social activities and led the school's morning exercise class. Over the course of five consecutive summers from 1946 onward he returned home to assist his father in operating a combine harvester, during which they sometimes worked 20-hour days. In 1948, they harvested over 8,000 centners of grain, a feat for which Sergey was awarded the Order of Lenin and his son the Order of the Red Banner of Labour.\n Question: Based on this passage, how many miles did Gorbachev walk each week for his round trip commute to school?", "output": "According to this passage, Gorbachev's round trip walking commute to school was 24 miles per week. He walked 12 miles each way and travelled to and from school only once per week."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Samuel Fain Carter, the founder of Lumberman's Bank in Houston, commissioned the architecture firm of Sanguinet and Staats to design a sixteen-floor, steel-framed building on Main Street at the corner of Rusk Street in Houston. The Fort Worth-based Sanguinet and Staats had already been building skyscrapers in various cities in Texas, and was building a reputation for this type of structure.In 1909, the building had an estimated cost of $650,000. Carter planned to finance construction through issues of equity and debt, stipulating that he would restrict bonds to $400,000 in value. The Rice Institute agreed to purchase up to $200,000 in bonds.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the JW Marriott building in Downtown Houston, what was the framing made of and how tall was it?", "output": "The building used steel framing and was 16 floors."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Corgan's desire for musical perfection put further strain on the already-frayed relationships between the band members. Vig later recalled, \"D'arcy would lock herself in the bathroom, James wouldn't say anything, or Billy would lock himself in the control room\". Corgan often overdubbed Iha's and Wretzky's parts with his own playing. Wretzky stated that Corgan only performed most of the guitar and bass parts because he could lay them down more easily in recording and with far fewer takes. Stories of the album's recording had circulated in the music press. Corgan admitted there was some truth to accusations of tyrannical behavior, though he felt the press misunderstood the situation.\n\nWhile Chamberlin performed all drum parts on the album, he would disappear for days on drug benders that caused everyone to fear for his life. After one incident where the drummer had disappeared for two or three days, Corgan \"put the hammer down\", according to Vig, and had Chamberlin perform the drum part for \"Cherub Rock\" until his hands bled. Due to Corgan's urging, Chamberlin checked into a rehab clinic. Corgan told Spin later that year, \"You know, I gave them a year and a half to prepare for this record... I'm surrounded by these people who I care about very much, yet they continue to keep failing me.\" Corgan explained that he began to take the actions of others personally; he said, \"If you really think about it, of course, someone doesn't do the job because they're lazy, or they don't think it's important. But I took it as, 'You're not worth going home and working on the song.'\"\n Question: Did Billy Corgan really play all of the instruments on Smashing Pumpkin's 1993 album \"Siamese Dream\"?", "output": "No. Jimmy Chamberlin recorded all of the drum parts. However, Billy Corgan often overdubbed the guitar and bass parts with his own playing."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The following article lists the most valuable corporate brands in the world according to different estimates by Kantar Group, Interbrand, Brand Finance and Forbes. Factors that influence brand value are sales, market share, market capitalization, awareness of a brand, products, popularity, image, etc. Readers should note that lists like this, while informative, are somewhat subjective, as no single metric exists for determining valuation for brands.\n\nTop 10 valuable companies according Kantar 2022 list are Apple Inc, Google Inc, Amazon.com Inc, Microsoft corp, Tencent, McDonald, Visa Inc, Facebook, Alibaba, Louis Vuitton\n Question: Which are most valuable corporate brands in the world", "output": "Kantar group, Interbrand, Brand Finance and Forbes every year release most valuable corporate brands in the world. \nTop 10 valuable companies according Kantar 2022 list are Apple Inc (US) , Google Inc (US), Amazon.com Inc (US), Microsoft corp (US), Tencent (China), McDonald (US), Visa Inc(US), Facebook (US), Alibaba group (China) and Louis Vuitton (France) \n\nFactors that influence brand value are sales, market share, market capitalization, awareness of a brand, products, popularity, image, etc. Readers should note that lists like this, while informative, are somewhat subjective, as no single metric exists for determining valuation for brands."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jiang Zemin (17 August 1926 \u2013 30 November 2022) was a Chinese politician who served as general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) from 1989 to 2002, as chairman of the Central Military Commission from 1989 to 2004, and as president of China from 1993 to 2003. Jiang was paramount leader of China from 1989 to 2002. He was the core leader of the third generation of Chinese leadership, one of four core leaders alongside Mao Zedong, Deng Xiaoping and Xi Jinping.\n\nBorn in Yangzhou, Jiangsu, Jiang joined the CCP while he was in college. After the establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949, he received training at the Stalin Automobile Works in Moscow in the 1950s, later returning to Shanghai in 1962 to serve in various institutes, later being sent between 1970-1972 to Romania as part of an expert team to establish machinery manufacturing plants in the country. After 1979, he was appointed as the vice chair of two commissions by vice premier Gu Mu to oversee the newly-established special economic zones (SEZs). He became the vice minister of the newly-established Ministry of Electronics Industry and a member of the CCP Central Committee in 1982.\n\nJiang was appointed as the mayor of Shanghai in 1985, later being promoted to its Communist Party secretary, as well as a member of the CCP Politburo, in 1987. Jiang came to power unexpectedly as a compromise candidate following the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests and massacre, when he replaced Zhao Ziyang as CCP general secretary after Zhao was ousted for his support for the student movement. As the involvement of the \"Eight Elders\" in Chinese politics steadily declined, Jiang consolidated his hold on power to become the \"paramount leader\" in the country during the 1990s. Urged by Deng Xiaoping's southern tour in 1992, Jiang officially introduced the term \"socialist market economy\" in his speech during the 14th CCP National Congress held later that year, which accelerated \"opening up and reform\".\n\nUnder Jiang's leadership, China experienced substantial economic growth with the continuation of market reforms. The returning of Hong Kong from the United Kingdom in 1997 and of Macau from Portugal in 1999, and entry into the World Trade Organisation in 2001, were landmark moments of his era. China also witnessed improved relations with the outside world, while the Communist Party maintained its tight control over the state. Jiang faced criticism over human rights abuses, including the crackdown on the Falun Gong movement. His contributions to party doctrine, known as the \"Three Represents\", were written into the CCP constitution in 2002. Jiang gradually vacated his official leadership titles from 2002 to 2005, being succeeded in these roles by Hu Jintao, although he and his political faction continued to influence affairs until much later. On 30 November 2022, Jiang died from leukemia and multiple organ failure in Shanghai.\n Question: Name China's greatest events happened when Jiang was in charge", "output": "The returning of Hong Kong and Macau, and joining WTO"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Eye of Heaven is a Fargo adventure novel. The two main characters of the Fargo novels are adventurers Sam Fargo and his wife, Remi. The Eye of Heaven is the sixth book of the Fargo series. The book's hardcover edition was first published September 2, 2014.\n\nPlot\nBaffin Island: Husband-and-wife team Sam and Remi Fargo are on a climate-control expedition in the Arctic, when to their astonishment they discover a Viking ship in the ice, perfectly preserved\u2014and filled with pre\u2013Columbian artifacts from Mexico.\n\nHow can that be? As they plunge into their research, tantalizing clues about a link between the Vikings and the legendary Toltec feathered serpent god Quetzalcoatl/Ce Acatl Topiltzin \u2014and a fabled object known as the Eye of Heaven\u2014 begin to emerge. But so do many dangerous people. Soon the Fargos find themselves on the run through jungles, temples, and secret tombs, caught between treasure hunters, crime cartels, and those with a far more personal motivation for stopping them. At the end of the road will be the solution to a thousand-year-old mystery\u2014or death.\n Question: Given this summary of The Eye of Heaven, what kind of ship did they find in the Arctic?", "output": "A perfectly preserved viking ship, with pre-columbian artifacts from Mexico."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Fortress is a shooter video game developed by CCR Inc and published by Netsgo. The game spawned an animated series, Tank Knights Fortress, and a sequel, Fortress 2. On November 18, 2011, service for the game was terminated in South Korea and Japan.\n Question: What game was the animated series Tank Knights Fortress based on?", "output": "Fortress."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The original V8 is a savory juice. It is made mainly from water and tomato concentrate, and reconstituted vegetable juice blend: water and concentrate of eight vegetables, specifically: beets, celery, carrots, lettuce, parsley, watercress, spinach, and tomato. Campbell's has produced several varieties of the drink, such as Original, Spicy Hot, Hint of Black Pepper, Lemon, Picante, Low-Sodium, and Organic.\n\nThree spin-offs of the V8 brand, \"V8 Energy\", \"V8 Splash\" and \"V8 V\u2022Fusion\", are blends of fruit and vegetable (specifically carrot) juices. V8 Splash is a juice cocktail partially sweetened with high-fructose corn syrup and sucralose; diet versions of V8 Splash omit the high-fructose corn syrup. V8 Energy also classifies as a cocktail and is partially sweetened with sucralose. V\u2022Fusion is made from 100% juice.\n Question: What are main vegetables in V8 juice?", "output": "beets, celery, carrots, lettuce, parsley, watercress, spinach, and tomato"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A number of significant inventions and discoveries have been made by Berkeley faculty members and researchers:\n\nNatural sciences\nEdit\nAtomic bomb \u2013 Physics professor J. Robert Oppenheimer was wartime director of Los Alamos National Laboratory and the Manhattan Project.\nCarbon 14 and photosynthesis \u2013 Martin Kamen and Sam Ruben first discovered carbon 14 in 1940, and Nobel laureate Melvin Calvin and his colleagues used carbon 14 as a molecular tracer to reveal the carbon assimilation path in photosynthesis, known as Calvin cycle.\nCarcinogens \u2013 Identified chemicals that damage DNA. The Ames test was described in a series of papers in 1973 by Bruce Ames and his group at the university.\nChemical elements \u2013 16 elements have been discovered at Berkeley (technetium, astatine, neptunium, plutonium, americium, curium, berkelium, californium, einsteinium, fermium, mendelevium, nobelium, lawrencium, rutherfordium, dubnium, and seaborgium).\nCovalent bond \u2013 Gilbert N. Lewis in 1916 described the sharing of electron pairs between atoms, and invented the Lewis notation to describe the mechanisms.\nCRISPR gene editing \u2013 Nobel laureate Jennifer Doudna discovers a precise and inexpensive way for manipulating DNA in human cells.\nCyclotron \u2013 Ernest O. Lawrence created a particle accelerator in 1934, and was awarded the Nobel Physics Prize in 1939.\nDark energy \u2013 Saul Perlmutter and many others in the Supernova Cosmology Project discover the universe is expanding because of dark energy 1998.\nFlu vaccine \u2013 Wendell M. Stanley and colleagues discovered the vaccine in the 1940s.\nHydrogen bomb \u2013 Edward Teller, the father of hydrogen bomb, was a professor at Berkeley and a researcher at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and the Los Alamos National Laboratory.\nImmunotherapy of cancer \u2013 James P. Allison discovers and develops monoclonal antibody therapy that uses the immune system to combat cancer 1992\u20131995.\nMolecular clock \u2013 Allan Wilson discovery in 1967.\nNeuroplasticity \u2013 Marian Diamond discovers structural, biochemical, and synaptic changes in brain caused by environmental enrichment 1964\nOncogene \u2013 Peter Duesberg discovers first cancer causing gene in a virus 1970s.\nTelomerase \u2013 Elizabeth H. Blackburn, Carol Greider, and Jack Szostak discover enzyme that promotes cell division and growth 1985.\nVitamin E \u2013 Gladys Anderson Emerson isolates Vitamin E in a pure form in 1952.\n Question: What are the major innovations and scientific discoveries from UC Berkeley?", "output": "Atomic bomb by J. Robert Oppenheimer, carbon 14 and its photosynthesis, covalent bond, cyclotron, and etc."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Asia is the largest continent on Earth. It covers 9% of the Earth's total surface area (or 30% of its land area), and has the longest coastline, at 62,800 kilometres (39,022 mi). Asia is generally defined as comprising the eastern four-fifths of Eurasia. It is located to the east of the Suez Canal and the Ural Mountains, and south of the Caucasus Mountains (or the Kuma\u2013Manych Depression) and the Caspian and Black Seas. It is bounded on the east by the Pacific Ocean, on the south by the Indian Ocean and on the north by the Arctic Ocean. Asia is subdivided into 49 countries, five of them (Georgia, Azerbaijan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Turkey) are transcontinental countries lying partly in Europe. Geographically, Russia is partly in Asia, but is considered a European nation, both culturally and politically.\n Question: Given a reference text that provides the geographical description of continent Asia, how many Asian countries have a part of their land in Europe as well?", "output": "5"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: P\u00e4rt's musical education began at the age of seven when he began attending music school in Rakvere. By his early teenage years, P\u00e4rt was writing his own compositions. His first serious study came in 1954 at the Tallinn Music Middle School, but less than a year later he temporarily abandoned it to fulfill military service, playing oboe and percussion in the army band. After his military service he attended the Tallinn Conservatory, where he studied composition with Heino Eller and it was said of him, \"he just seemed to shake his sleeves and the notes would fall out\". During the 1950s, he also completed his first vocal composition, the cantata Meie aed ('Our Garden') for children's choir and orchestra. He graduated in 1963.\n Question: Given this paragraph about composer Arvo P\u00e4rt, tell me where and when he studied composition and with which teacher.", "output": "Arvo P\u00e4rt studied composition at the Tallinn Conservatory during the 1950s. His composition teacher was Heino Eller."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Robyn Rihanna Fenty (born February 20, 1988) is a Barbadian singer, actress, and businesswoman. Born in Saint Michael and raised in Bridgetown, Barbados, Rihanna auditioned for American record producer Evan Rogers who invited her to the United States to record demo tapes. After signing with Def Jam in 2005, she soon gained recognition with the release of her first two studio albums, Music of the Sun (2005) and A Girl Like Me (2006), both of which were influenced by Caribbean music and peaked within the top ten of the US Billboard 200 chart.\n Question: Who is Rihanna?", "output": "Rihanna (Robyn Rihanna Fenty) is a singer, actress, and businesswoman from Barbados. After auditioning with American record producer Evan Rogers, she signed to Def Jam in 2005 and gained worldwide recognition with her first two studio albums, \"Music of the Sun\" and \"A Girl Like Me\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: At the 2004 Summer Olympics, she originally won the gold medal in shot put, but tested positive for stanozolol and was stripped of the medal. She later received a life ban from the IAAF in a Memorandum of 21 September 2005. Korzhanenko refused to return the gold medal, despite the pressure of the International Athletics Federation's officials. As of 2023, she has not returned the gold medal.\n Question: Does Irina Korzhanenko still have her gold medal?", "output": "Yes, although she was stripped of the medal she refused to return it."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The company was incorporated as Tesla Motors, Inc. on July 1, 2003, by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning. Eberhard and Tarpenning served as CEO and CFO, respectively. Eberhard said he wanted to build \"a car manufacturer that is also a technology company\", with its core technologies as \"the battery, the computer software, and the proprietary motor\".\n\nIan Wright was Tesla's third employee, joining a few months later. In February 2004, the company raised $7.5 million in series A funding, including $6.5 million from Elon Musk, who had received $100 million from the sale of his interest in PayPal two years earlier. Musk became the chairman of the board of directors and the largest shareholder of Tesla. J. B. Straubel joined Tesla in May 2004 as chief technical officer.\n\nA lawsuit settlement agreed to by Eberhard and Tesla in September 2009 allows all five \u2013 Eberhard, Tarpenning, Wright, Musk, and Straubel \u2013 to call themselves co-founders.\n Question: Who was chairman of the board of directors of Tesla as of March 2004?", "output": "Elon Musk"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The earliest references to peanut butter can be traced to Aztec and Inca civilizations, who ground roasted peanuts into a paste.[clarification needed] However, several people can be credited with the invention of modern peanut butter and the processes involved in making it.[according to whom?]\n\nThe US National Peanut Board credits three modern inventors with the earliest patents related to the production of modern peanut butter. Marcellus Gilmore Edson of Montreal, Quebec, Canada, obtained the first patent for a method of producing peanut butter from roasted peanuts using heated surfaces in 1884. Edson's cooled product had \"a consistency like that of butter, lard, or ointment\" according to his patent application which described a process of milling roasted peanuts until the peanuts reached \"a fluid or semi-fluid state\". He mixed sugar into the paste to harden its consistency.[citation needed]\n Question: From the text below about the history of peanut butter, where can the first reference be traced from?", "output": "The earliest reference to peanut butter can be traced to Aztec and Inca civilizations."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Magnesium is a chemical element with the symbol Mg and atomic number 12. It is a shiny gray metal having a low density, low melting point and high chemical reactivity. Like the other alkaline earth metals (group 2 of the periodic table) it occurs naturally only in combination with other elements and it almost always has an oxidation state of +2. It reacts readily with air to form a thin passivation coating of magnesium oxide that inhibits further corrosion of the metal. The free metal burns with a brilliant-white light. The metal is obtained mainly by electrolysis of magnesium salts obtained from brine. It is less dense than aluminium and is used primarily as a component in strong and lightweight alloys that contain aluminium.\n Question: Given this paragraph about magnesium, what is the element symbol of magnesium?", "output": "Mg is the element symbol of magnesium."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: log rotation is an automated process used in system administration in which log files are compressed, moved (archived), renamed or deleted once they are too old or too big\n Question: Given the reference text, what is log rotation in information technology?", "output": "In information technology, log rotation is an automated process used in system administration in which log files are compressed, moved (archived), renamed or deleted once they are too old or too big (there can be other metrics that can apply here). New incoming log data is directed into a new fresh file (at the same location)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Merlot (/\u02c8m\u025c\u02d0rlo\u028a/ MUR-loh) is a dark blue\u2013colored wine grape variety, that is used as both a blending grape and for varietal wines. The name Merlot is thought to be a diminutive of merle, the French name for the blackbird, probably a reference to the color of the grape. Its softness and \"fleshiness,\" combined with its earlier ripening, make Merlot a popular grape for blending with the sterner, later-ripening Cabernet Sauvignon, which tends to be higher in tannin.\n Question: What is Merlot?", "output": "Merlot (/\u02c8m\u025c\u02d0rlo\u028a/ MUR-loh) is a dark blue\u2013colored wine grape variety, that is used as both a blending grape and for varietal wines."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Arsenal was the first club from the South of England to join the Football League in 1893, and they reached the First Division in 1904. Relegated only once, in 1913, they continue the longest streak in the top division, and have won the second-most top-flight matches in English football history. In the 1930s, Arsenal won five League Championships and two FA Cups, and another FA Cup and two Championships after the war. In 1970\u201371, they won their first League and FA Cup Double. Between 1989 and 2005, they won five League titles and five FA Cups, including two more Doubles. They completed the 20th century with the highest average league position. Between 1998 and 2017, Arsenal qualified for the UEFA Champions League for nineteen consecutive seasons.\n Question: When did Arsenal first reach the first division? How many league titles did they win between 1989 and 2005 and how many FA cups? How many trophies in total for that period?", "output": "Arsenal reached the first division in 1904. Between 1989 and 2005, Arsenal won 5 league titles and 5 FA cups. That\u2019s a total of 10 trophies."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Charles Henry Bromedge Caldwell was born in Hingham, Massachusetts on February 24, 1823. He entered the navy as midshipman February 27, 1838, and became lieutenant September 4, 1852. He commanded the USS Vandalia in the US Navy's second Fiji expedition, an 1859 punitive expedition against Waya Island warriors who had cannibalized two American traders. In 1862, he commanded the gun-boat Itasca, of the western gulf blockading squadron, and took part in the bombardment of Forts Jackson and St. Philip. On the night of April 20, his gun-boat, with the Pinola, was sent on an expedition under the command of Fleet-Capt. Bell, to make a passage for the fleet through the chain obstructions near the forts. Lieut. Caldwell and his party boarded one of the hulks that held the chains, and succeeded in detaching the latter, in spite of the heavy fire to which they were subjected. The Itasca was then swept on shore by the current, in full sight of the forts, and it was half an hour before she was afloat again. She was unable to pass the forts with the rest of the fleet, owing to a shot that penetrated her boiler. Lieut. Caldwell was in the action at Grand Gulf, June 9, 1862, and was promoted to commander on July 16 1862.\n\nHe commanded the iron-clad Essex, of the Mississippi squadron in 1862\u201363, and took part in the operations at Port Hudson, from March to July 1863, in command of the Essex and the mortar flotilla.\n\nHe commanded the Glaucus of the North Atlantic blockading squadron from 1863 till 1864, and the R. R. Cuyler, of the same squadron, from 1864 till 1865. He became captain, December 12, 1867, chief of staff of the North Atlantic fleet in 1870, and commodore on June 14, 1874.\n\nHe died on November 30, 1877.\n Question: Given this reference text about the career of Charles Henry Bromedge Caldwell, name the ships he commanded after his promotion to the rank of Commander.", "output": "Essex\nGlaucus\nR. R. Cuyler"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A gravel bicycle is a type of bicycle intended for gravel cycling, including gravel racing. They are also sometimes known as \"adventure bicycles\", particularly ones intended for harsher off-road terrain.\n\nWhile bicycles have been used for riding on such roads since bicycles were invented, the \"modern\" gravel bicycle, as a category, evolved in the 2000s, adopting technology from road bicycles, cyclocross bicycles and mountain bikes. They also share many characteristics of touring bicycles, such as relaxed geometry, wide tires and wide-range gearing.\n Question: What type of terrain is a gravel bike used for?", "output": "Gravel bikes are a do-it-all kind of bike. They are effective on a wide array of terrain, ranging from smooth roads to singletrack trails, but thrive on harsher off-road terrain."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Our Common Future, also known as the Brundtland Report, was published on October 1987 by the United Nations through the Oxford University Press. This publication was in recognition of Gro Harlem Brundtland's, former Norwegian Prime Minister, role as Chair of the World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED).\n\nIts targets were multilateralism and interdependence of nations in the search for a sustainable development path. The report sought to recapture the spirit of the Stockholm Conference which had introduced environmental concerns to the formal political development sphere. Our Common Future placed environmental issues firmly on the political agenda; it aimed to discuss the environment and development as one single issue.\n\nThe document was the culmination of a \"900-day\" international exercise which catalogued, analysed, and synthesised written submissions and expert testimony from \"senior government representatives, scientists and experts, research institutes, industrialists, representatives of non-governmental organizations, and the general public\" held at public hearings throughout the world.\n\nThe report defined 'sustainable development' as \"Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs\".\n Question: Given a reference text about Our Common Future, what was the purpose of the report?", "output": "The purpose of the Our Common Future report was to focus on environmental issues on the political agenda and to discuss sustainable development."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Airbus A380 is a large wide-body airliner that was developed and produced by Airbus. It is the world's largest passenger airliner and only full-length double-deck jet airliner. Airbus studies started in 1988, and the project was announced in 1990 to challenge the dominance of the Boeing 747 in the long-haul market. The then-designated A3XX project was presented in 1994; Airbus launched the \u20ac9.5 billion ($10.7 billion) A380 programme on 19 December 2000. The first prototype was unveiled in Toulouse on 18 January 2005, with its first flight on 27 April 2005. It then obtained its type certificate from the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) on 12 December 2006.\n\nDue to difficulties with the electrical wiring, the initial production was delayed by two years and the development costs almost doubled. It was first delivered to Singapore Airlines on 15 October 2007 and entered service on 25 October. Production peaked at 30 per year in 2012 and 2014. However, after the largest customer, Emirates, reduced its last order in February 2019, Airbus announced that A380 production would end in 2021. On 16 December 2021, Emirates received its 123rd A380, which was the 251st and last delivered by Airbus. The $25 billion investment was not recouped.\n\nThe full-length double-deck aircraft has a typical seating for 525 passengers, with a maximum certified capacity for 853 passengers. The quadjet is powered by Engine Alliance GP7200 or Rolls-Royce Trent 900 turbofans providing a range of 8,000 nmi (14,800 km). As of December 2021, the global A380 fleet had completed more than 800,000 flights over 7.3 million block hours with no fatalities and no hull losses. As of December 2022, there were 237 aircraft in service with 16 operators worldwide.\n Question: What is the biggest passenger airliner?", "output": "A380 is the largest passenger airliner. It has a typical seating for 525 passengers, with a maximum certified capacity for 853 passengers and has a range of 14,800km."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Michel Warschawski (Mikado) (born 25 July 1949) is an Israeli anti-Zionist activist. He led the Marxist Revolutionary Communist League (previously Matzpen-Jerusalem) until its demise in the 1990s, and founded the Alternative Information Center, a joint Palestinian-Israeli non-governmental organization, in 1984.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Michel Warschawski, tell me the two organizations that Warschawski led during his life.", "output": "Michel Warschawski, an anti-Zionist activist, led the Marxist Revolutionary Communist League and later the Alternative Information Center."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: BJJ eventually came to be its own defined combat sport through the innovations, practices, and adaptation of Gracie jiu-jitsu and Judo, and became an essential martial art for modern MMA. Governing bodies such as the IBJJF work worldwide, and set the rules and standards to be held in sport BJJ competitions.\n Question: Based on this paragraph about Brazilian jiu-jitsu. which martial arts influenced Jiu-Jitsu.", "output": "Jiu-jitsu and Judo"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The guitar is a fretted musical instrument that typically has six strings. It is usually held flat against the player's body and played by strumming or plucking the strings with the dominant hand, while simultaneously pressing selected strings against frets with the fingers of the opposite hand. A plectrum or individual finger picks may also be used to strike the strings. The sound of the guitar is projected either acoustically, by means of a resonant chamber on the instrument, or amplified by an electronic pickup and an amplifier.\n\nThe guitar is classified as a chordophone \u2013 meaning the sound is produced by a vibrating string stretched between two fixed points. Historically, a guitar was constructed from wood with its strings made of catgut. Steel guitar strings were introduced near the end of the nineteenth century in the United States, nylon strings came in the 1940s. The guitar's ancestors include the gittern, the vihuela, the four-course Renaissance guitar, and the five-course baroque guitar, all of which contributed to the development of the modern six-string instrument.\n\nThere are three main types of modern guitar: the classical guitar (Spanish guitar/nylon-string guitar), the steel-string acoustic guitar or electric guitar, and the Hawaiian guitar (played across the player's lap). Traditional acoustic guitars include the flat top guitar (typically with a large sound hole) or an arch top guitar, which is sometimes called a \"jazz guitar\". The tone of an acoustic guitar is produced by the strings' vibration, amplified by the hollow body of the guitar, which acts as a resonating chamber. The classical Spanish guitar is often played as a solo instrument using a comprehensive fingerstyle technique where each string is plucked individually by the player's fingers, as opposed to being strummed. The term \"finger-picking\" can also refer to a specific tradition of folk, blues, bluegrass, and country guitar playing in the United States.\n Question: how many strings guitar have?\nhow guitar projects sound?\nwhat are different types of guitar?", "output": "A typical guitar have 6 strings but there are other guitars (bass guitar) which have 4-6 strings.\nThe sound of the guitar is projected either acoustically, by means of a resonant chamber on the instrument, or amplified by an electronic pickup and an amplifier.\nThere are three main types of modern guitar, the classical guitar, the steel string acoustic guitar or electric guitar, and the Hawaiian guitar which is played across player's lap."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Man in the Saddle (German: Der Mann im Sattel) is a 1945 German film directed by and starring Harry Piel.\n Question: Given this reference paragrah, who directed \"The Man in the Saddle?\"", "output": "Harry Piel"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A city can be defined by its administrative boundaries, otherwise known as city proper. UNICEF defines city proper as, \"the population living within the administrative boundaries of a city or controlled directly from the city by a single authority.\" A city proper is a locality defined according to legal or political boundaries and an administratively recognised urban status that is usually characterised by some form of local government. Cities proper and their boundaries and population data may not include suburbs.\n\nThe use of city proper as defined by administrative boundaries may not include suburban areas where an important proportion of the population working or studying in the city lives. Because of this definition, the city proper population figure may differ greatly with the urban area population figure, as many cities are amalgamations of smaller municipalities (Australia), and conversely, many Chinese cities govern territories that extend well beyond the traditional \"city proper\" into suburban and rural areas. The Chinese municipality of Chongqing, which claims the largest city proper in the world by population, comprises a huge administrative area of 82,403 km2, around the size of Austria. However, more than 70% of its 30-million population are actually agricultural workers living in a rural setting.\n Question: What is the largest city in the world?", "output": "ChoingQing, China is the largest city proper in the world by population. It has a huge administrative area of 82403 km2. While, it governs territories that covers both suburban and rural areas, which extend well beyond the traditional city proper."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Air Jordan is a line of basketball shoes and athletic apparel produced by American corporation Nike, Inc. The first Air Jordan shoe was produced for Hall of Fame former basketball player Michael Jordan during his time with the Chicago Bulls in late 1984 and released to the public on April 1, 1985. The shoes were designed for Nike by Peter Moore, Tinker Hatfield, and Bruce Kilgore.\n Question: Given the reference text below, what is Air Jordan?", "output": "Air Jordan is a line of basketball shoes produced by Nike and Michael Jordan, first released in public on 1st April 1985."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: This Mortal Coil were a British music collective led by Ivo Watts-Russell, founder of the British record label 4AD. Although Watts-Russell and John Fryer were the only two official members, the band's recorded output featured a large rotating cast of supporting artists, many of whom were otherwise associated with 4AD, including members of Cocteau Twins, Pixies and Dead Can Dance. The project became known for its gothic, dream pop sound, and released three full albums, beginning in 1984 with It'll End in Tears.\n Question: What sound was 'This Mortal Coil' known for?", "output": "This Mortal Coil known for its gothic, dream pop sound."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: After being expelled from Malaysia, Singapore became independent as the Republic of Singapore on 9 August 1965, with Lee Kuan Yew and Yusof bin Ishak as the first prime minister and president respectively. In 1967, the country co-founded the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). Race riots broke out once more in 1969. Lee Kuan Yew's emphasis on rapid economic growth, support for business entrepreneurship, and limitations on internal democracy shaped Singapore's policies for the next half-century. Economic growth continued throughout the 1980s, with the unemployment rate falling to 3% and real GDP growth averaging at about 8% up until 1999. During the 1980s, Singapore began to shift towards high-tech industries, such as the wafer fabrication sector, in order to remain competitive as neighbouring countries began manufacturing with cheaper labour. Singapore Changi Airport was opened in 1981 and Singapore Airlines was formed. The Port of Singapore became one of the world's busiest ports and the service and tourism industries also grew immensely during this period.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Singapore, who was Singapore's first president?", "output": "Yusof bin Ishak"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mother Teresa said, \"By blood, I am Albanian. By citizenship, an Indian. By faith, I am a Catholic nun. As to my calling, I belong to the world. As to my heart, I belong entirely to the Heart of Jesus.\" Fluent in five languages \u2013 Bengali, Albanian, Serbian, English and Hindi \u2013 she made occasional trips outside India for humanitarian reasons. At the height of the Siege of Beirut in 1982, Mother Teresa rescued 37 children trapped in a front-line hospital by brokering a temporary cease-fire between the Israeli army and Palestinian guerrillas. Accompanied by Red Cross workers, she travelled through the war zone to the hospital to evacuate the young patients. When Eastern Europe experienced increased openness in the late 1980s, Mother Teresa expanded her efforts to Communist countries which had rejected the Missionaries of Charity. She began dozens of projects, undeterred by criticism of her stands against abortion and divorce: \"No matter who says what, you should accept it with a smile and do your own work.\" She visited Armenia after the 1988 earthquake and met with Soviet Premier Nikolai Ryzhkov. Mother Teresa travelled to assist the hungry in Ethiopia, radiation victims at Chernobyl and earthquake victims in Armenia. In 1991 she returned to Albania for the first time, opening a Missionaries of Charity Brothers home in Tirana. By 1996, the Missionaries of Charity operated 517 missions in over 100 countries. The number of sisters in the Missionaries of Charity grew from twelve to thousands, serving the \"poorest of the poor\" in 450 centres worldwide. The first Missionaries of Charity home in the United States was established in the South Bronx area of New York City, and by 1984 the congregation operated 19 establishments throughout the country.\n Question: Given the reference text about Mother Teresa's international charity, how many languages did Mother Teresa speak?", "output": "Mother Teresa was fluent in five languages, namely Bengali, Albanian, Serbian, English and Hindi."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Tampa Bay Rowdies are an American professional soccer team based in St. Petersburg, Florida. The club was founded in 2008 and first took the pitch in 2010. Since 2017, the Rowdies have been members of the USL Championship in the second tier of the American soccer pyramid. They formerly played in USSF Division 2 (in 2010) and the North American Soccer League (NASL) (from 2011 to 2016), which were also second-tier leagues. The Rowdies play their home games at Al Lang Stadium on St. Petersburg's downtown waterfront.\n\nThe current club is a phoenix club of the original Tampa Bay Rowdies, who were active from 1975 until 1993, most notably in the original North American Soccer League. It shares its name, logo, and some of its club culture with the original club. The owners of the current club announced their intention to use the old Rowdies' trademarks at its introductory press conference in 2008. However, licensing issues forced the club to use the name FC Tampa Bay until December 2011, when it gained full rights to the Rowdies name and other intellectual property. The current Rowdies have always used the same green and yellow color scheme and \"hoops\" as the original team, even when they could not yet use the Rowdies name.\n\nThe Rowdies captured the NASL championship in Soccer Bowl 2012, and their team shield includes two stars: one for their 2012 win and one for the 1975 Soccer Bowl championship won by the original Rowdies. The club has had a long-standing rivalry with the Fort Lauderdale Strikers, with whom they have contested the Florida Derby since the original Rowdies and Strikers first met in 1977. The Rowdies were also named co-league champions in 2020 after winning the USL Regular Season title and Eastern Conference Championship, but the title game was canceled due to COVID-19. They were Eastern Conference Champions again in 2021, but lost in the title game.\n\nIn October 2018, the Tampa Bay Rays, the area's Major League Baseball franchise, announced plans to purchase the Rowdies and assume control of Al Lang Stadium.\n Question: Based on the reference text, what colors do the Tampa Bay Rowdies wear and what stadium do they play in?", "output": "The Tampa Bay Rowdies wear green and yellow and play in Al Lang Stadium in downtown St. Petersburg."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Chile, officially the Republic of Chile, is a country located in western South America. It is the southernmost country in the world and closest to Antarctica, stretching along a narrow strip of land between the Andes Mountains and the Pacific Ocean. With an area of 756,096 square kilometers (291,930 sq mi) and a population of 17.5 million as of 2017, Chile shares borders with Peru to the north, Bolivia to the northeast, Argentina to the east, and the Drake Passage to the south. The country also controls several Pacific islands, including Juan Fern\u00e1ndez, Isla Salas y G\u00f3mez, Desventuradas, and Easter Island, and claims about 1,250,000 square kilometers (480,000 sq mi) of Antarctica as the Chilean Antarctic Territory.[nb 2] The capital and largest city of Chile is Santiago, and the national language is Spanish.\n Question: Is the capital city and the largest city of Chile same or different?", "output": "They are the same. Santiago."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Elk Grove is a city in Sacramento County, California, United States. Located just south of the state capital of Sacramento, it is part of the Sacramento\u2013Arden-Arcade\u2013Roseville Metropolitan Statistical Area. As of the 2020 Census, the population of the city was 176,124. A 2021 Census estimate puts the population of the city at 178,997. Elk Grove has many wineries, wine cellars, and vineyards. Elk Grove was the fastest-growing city in the U.S. between July 1, 2004, and July 1, 2005, and is also presently the second-largest city in Sacramento County by population.\n\nThe City of Elk Grove became the first city in California to be incorporated in the 21st century. It is a general law city with a council/manager form of government. One of Elk Grove's largest employers is the Elk Grove Unified School District, which is the city's second largest employer.\n Question: Given a reference text about Elk Grove, what state is it located in and about how many people live there?", "output": "Elk Grove is a city in California and has a population of about 180,000."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Domestically, the club has won 19 League titles, eight FA Cups, a record nine League Cups and 16 FA Community Shields. In international competitions, the club has won six European Cups, three UEFA Cups, four UEFA Super Cups\u2014all English records\u2014and one FIFA Club World Cup.\n Question: How many titles have Liverpool won?", "output": "Liverpool has won 19 League titles, 8 FA cups, 9 League cups, 16 FA community shields and 6 European cups."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Satoshi Nakamoto (born 5 April 1975) is the name used by the presumed pseudonymous person or persons who developed bitcoin, authored the bitcoin white paper, and created and deployed bitcoin's original reference implementation. As part of the implementation, Nakamoto also devised the first blockchain database. Nakamoto was active in the development of bitcoin up until December 2010.\n\nThere has been widespread speculation about Satoshi Nakamoto's true identity, with a variety of people posited as the person or persons behind the name. Though Nakamoto's name is Japanese, and he stated in 2012 that he was a man living in Japan, most of the speculation has involved software and cryptography experts in the United States or Europe.\n Question: Is the person who invented bitcoin Japanese?", "output": "The answer is uncertain because this man was presumed to be living in Japan but he or she could be from Europe or American or anywhere in the world."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Archangel, also written as William Gibson Archangel or William Gibson's Archangel, is a five-issue limited series comic book that was created by William Gibson and Michael St. John Smith, written by William Gibson, illustrated by Butch Guice and story-edited by Michael Benedetto. It is Gibson's first comic book series, which is set in an alternative version of 2016 in which the Vice President of America travels back in time to 1945 to secure power.\n\nIDW Publishing first released Archangel from May 2016 to August 2017, then in October as a hardcover graphic novel. It was nominated for an Eisner Award for Best Limited Series and was adapted into an audio play that was released by Audible.\n Question: What is the name of William Gibson's first comic book series?", "output": "Archangel"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: During the initial outbreak in Wuhan, the virus and disease were commonly referred to as \"coronavirus\" and \"Wuhan coronavirus\", with the disease sometimes called \"Wuhan pneumonia\". In the past, many diseases have been named after geographical locations, such as the Spanish flu, Middle East respiratory syndrome, and Zika virus. In January 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended 2019-nCoV and 2019-nCoV acute respiratory disease as interim names for the virus and disease per 2015 guidance and international guidelines against using geographical locations or groups of people in disease and virus names to prevent social stigma. The official names COVID\u201119 and SARS-CoV-2 were issued by the WHO on 11 February 2020 with COVID-19 being shorthand for \"coronavirus disease 2019\". The WHO additionally uses \"the COVID\u201119 virus\" and \"the virus responsible for COVID\u201119\" in public communications.\n Question: What are all the different names for COVID-19 and which one is the most recommended?", "output": "Here are a list of names for COVID-19 that were mentioned: coronavirus, Wuhan coronavirus, Wuhan pneumonia, 2019-nCoV, 2019-nCoV acute respiratory disease, COVID\u201119, SARS-CoV-2, the COVID\u201119 virus, the virus responsible for COVID\u201119.\n\nThe official names COVID\u201119 and SARS-CoV-2 were issued by the WHO on 11 February 2020, but they also use \"the COVID\u201119 virus\" and \"the virus responsible for COVID\u201119\" in public communications.\n\nBased on this information, the most recommended name is COVID-19."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Zijldijk has three churches. The Mennomite church was built in 1772 in a non conspicuous barn-like building. It is still in use as a church. The Dutch Reformed church has been reconstructed as a village house. The Reformed Church was constructed in 1886, and nowadays serves as a care facility.\n Question: Given the passage about churches built in the village of Zijldijk in the Netherlands, when was the only running church built?", "output": "The Mennomite church was built in 1772 and is still in use as a church."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Black Sea is a marginal mediterranean sea of the Atlantic Ocean lying between Europe and Asia, east of the Balkans, south of the East European Plain, west of the Caucasus, and north of Anatolia. It is bounded by Bulgaria, Georgia, Romania, Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine. The Black Sea is supplied by major rivers, principally the Danube, Dnieper, and Don. Consequently, while six countries have a coastline on the sea, its drainage basin includes parts of 24 countries in Europe.\n Question: Where is the Black See?", "output": "The Black Sea is lying between Europe and Asia, east of the Balkans, south of the East European Plain, west of the Caucasus, and north of Anatolia. It is bounded by Bulgaria, Georgia, Romania, Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Malayalam (/\u02ccm\u00e6l\u0259\u02c8j\u0251\u02d0l\u0259m/; Malayalam: \u0d2e\u0d32\u0d2f\u0d3e\u0d33\u0d02, Malay\u0101\u1e37am, [m\u0250l\u0250ja\u02d0\u026d\u0250m] (listen)) is a Dravidian language spoken in the Indian state of Kerala and the union territories of Lakshadweep and Puducherry (Mah\u00e9 district) by the Malayali people. It is one of 22 scheduled languages of India. Malayalam was designated a \"Classical Language of India\" in 2013. Malayalam has official language status in Kerala and Puducherry (Mah\u00e9), and is also the primary spoken language of Lakshadweep and is spoken by 34 million people in India. Malayalam is also spoken by linguistic minorities in the neighbouring states; with a significant number of speakers in the Kodagu and Dakshina Kannada districts of Karnataka, and Kanyakumari, district of Tamil Nadu. It is also spoken by the Malayali Diaspora worldwide, especially in the Persian Gulf countries, due to the large populations of Malayali expatriates there. They are a significant population in each city in India including Mumbai, Bengaluru, Delhi, Kolkata, Pune etc.\n Question: Is the language spoken in Kerala a palindrome?", "output": "Yes, malayalam is the language spoken in Kerala and it is a palindrome"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The commercial and geopolitical importance of rivers is not ranked here. As a transportation artery, a river may unite a region commercially and economically, but major rivers, as barriers to travel, may also form political boundaries between states. The Danube, the second longest river in Europe, is notable for flowing through or past ten countries; the Rhine through or past six. The Volga, the longest river in Europe, unites a huge region of European Russia; eleven of the twenty largest cities in Russia lie on its banks. The Loire and the Po unite important regions within France and Italy respectively. The most important rivers in Europe include Rhone, Elbe, Oder, Tagus, Thames, Don and Dnieper, among others.\n Question: Given this paragraph about rivers in Europe, tell me what are the two longest rivers in Europe.", "output": "The two longest rivers in Europe are the Volga and the Danube."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A strain can occur as a result of improper body mechanics with any activity (e.g., contact sports, lifting heavy objects) that can induce mechanical trauma or injury. Generally, the muscle or tendon overstretches and is placed under more physical stress than it can withstand. Strains commonly result in a partial or complete tear of a tendon or muscle, or they can be severe in the form of a complete tendon rupture. Strains most commonly occur in the foot, leg, or back. Acute strains are more closely associated with recent mechanical trauma or injury. Chronic strains typically result from repetitive movement of the muscles and tendons over a long period of time.\n\nDegrees of Injury (as classified by the American College of Sports Medicine):\n\nFirst degree (mildest) \u2013 little tissue tearing; mild tenderness; pain with full range of motion.\nSecond degree \u2013 torn muscle or tendon tissues; painful, limited motion; possibly some swelling or depression at the spot of the injury.\nThird degree (most severe) \u2013 limited or no movement; severe acute pain, though sometimes painless straight after the initial injury\n Question: Given this paragraph about muscle strains and that my symptoms include severe and acute pain with movement limitations, how bad is my strain?", "output": "You likely have a Grade 3 strain, often considered amongst the most severe types"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hainanese chicken rice is a dish of poached chicken and seasoned rice, served with chilli sauce and usually with cucumber garnishes. It was created by immigrants from Hainan in southern China and adapted from the Hainanese dish Wenchang chicken. It is considered one of the national dishes of Singapore and is most commonly associated with Singaporean cuisine, being widely available in most food courts and hawker centres around the country. Variants of the dish can also be seen throughout Southeast Asia, particularly in Malaysia and Thailand, where it remains a culinary staple. In a debate that stretches back decades to 1965, when the two countries split, Malaysia and Singapore have both laid claim to inventing the dish. In 2009, then Malaysian Tourism Minister Ng Yen Yen said that Hainanese chicken rice was \"uniquely Malaysian\" and had been \"hijacked\" by other countries. Ng later clarified that she was misquoted on her intention to patent the foods, and that a study on the origins of the foods would be conducted \"and an apology conveyed if it was wrongly claimed.\" In 2018, then Malaysian Finance Minister Lim Guan Eng joked that Singapore claimed \"chicken rice is theirs (and) if we\u2019re not careful, \u2018char koay teow\u2018 will become theirs\" one day. The debate has been described as an example of gastronationalism.\n Question: Is Hainanese chicken rice a national dish of Singapore or Malaysia?", "output": "The answer might differ depending on who is answering your question. Hainanese chicken rice is considered one of the national dishes of Singapore being widely available in most food courts and hawker centres around the country. Variants of the dish can also be seen throughout Southeast Asia, particularly in Malaysia where it remains a culinary staple."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Roger Franklin Bonk (June 9, 1944 \u2013 February 13, 2023) was an American professional football player who was a linebacker for one season in the Canadian Football League (CFL) for the Winnipeg Blue Bombers. A native of Minnesota, he played freshman football for the Minnesota Golden Gophers in 1962 before transferring to the University of North Dakota. He played three years for their football team and was twice named all-conference, additionally being named first-team Little All-American as a senior. Bonk then played 15 games for Winnipeg in 1967 before being released prior to the 1968 season.\n Question: Given this reference paragraph about Roger Franklin Bonk where was he born?", "output": "Minnesota"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jeremiah Mutwalante Twa-Twa (born 29 January 1951) is a Ugandan physician, public health specialist, and politician. His last name is sometimes spelled \"Twatwa\". He is the elected Member of Parliament representing Iki-Iki County, Budaka District. He has served in that capacity since May 2011. Before that, he served as the director of the Division of Child Health at the Uganda Ministry of Health from 2005 until 2010.\n\nBackground and education\nHe was born in Budaka District on 29 January 1951. Twa-Twa attended Sekulo Primary School in Budaka District from 1959 until 1964. He then studied at Mbale College in Mbale District from 1965 until 1966. He undertook his O-Level studies (S1-S4) at Jinja College in Jinja District from 1967 until 1970. In 1971, he entered Namilyango College in Mukono District to pursue his A-Level (S5-S6) education, graduating in 1972.\n\nHe graduated from Makerere University Medical School in 1978 with a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery degree. In 1981, he obtained a Diploma in Public Health from the Makerere University School of Public Health. In 1995, he received a Master of Arts degree in demography from the same university. He also holds a Certificate in Epidemiology, awarded in 1983 by the University of Nairobi.[\n Question: Given a reference text about Jeremiah Mutwalante Twa-Twa, when and where was he born?", "output": "Jeremiah Mutwalante Twa-Twa was born in the Budaka District of Uganda on January 29, 1951."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Fleabag is a British comedy-drama television series created and written by Phoebe Waller-Bridge, based on her one-woman show first performed in 2013 at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival. It was originally produced by Two Brothers Pictures for digital channel BBC Three in a co-production agreement with Amazon Studios. Waller-Bridge stars as the title character, a free-spirited but angry and confused young woman in London. Sian Clifford stars as Fleabag's sister Claire, while Andrew Scott joined the cast in the second series as 'Hot Priest'. The protagonist frequently breaks the fourth wall to provide exposition, internal monologues, and a running commentary to the audience.\n Question: Who wrote the TV show Fleabag?", "output": "Fleabag is a British comedy-drama television series created and written by Phoebe Waller-Bridge."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The engine displaces 1,254 cc (76.5 cu in) with 102.5 mm bore \u00d7 76 mm stroke. The intake camshafts have two cam lobes per valve that can be switched within one cam revolution between partial-throttle and open-throttle cam profiles. Power and torque claimed by BMW are higher than the predecessor model at 134 horsepower (100 kW) at 7750 rpm and 105.5 pound force-feet (143.0 N\u22c5m) at 6250 rpm, with 4% better fuel economy.\n Question: What horsepower does a BMW 1250GS produce", "output": "The 2018 model of the 1250 GS produced 134 peak HP."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) is an agency of the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) that has authority over the security of transportation systems within, and connecting to the United States. It was created as a response to the September 11 attacks to improve airport security procedures and consolidate air travel security under a dedicated federal administrative law enforcement agency.\n Question: What is TSA?", "output": "TSA stands for Transportation Security Administration in the United States. It is the agency that is responsible for the security of transportation systems within United States. They are mainly responsible for airport security."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hummingbirds have varied specialized characteristics to enable rapid, maneuverable flight, exceptional metabolic capacity, adaptations to high altitude, sensitive visual and communication abilities, and long-distance migration in some species. Among all birds, male hummingbirds have the widest diversity of plumage color, particularly in blues, greens, and purples. Hummingbirds are the smallest mature birds, measuring 7.5\u201313 cm (3\u20135 in) in length. The smallest is the 5 cm (2.0 in) bee hummingbird, which weighs less than 2.0 g (0.07 oz), and the largest is the 23 cm (9.1 in) giant hummingbird, weighing 18\u201324 grams (0.63\u20130.85 oz). Noted for long beaks, hummingbirds are specialized for feeding on flower nectar, but all species also consume small insects.\n Question: What is the smallest bird?", "output": "Hummingbird is the smallest bird."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Sun Belt has seen substantial population growth since post-World War II from an influx of people seeking a warm and sunny climate, a surge in retiring baby boomers, and growing economic opportunities. The advent of air conditioning created more comfortable summer conditions and allowed more manufacturing and industry to locate in the Sun Belt. Since much of the construction in the Sun Belt is new or recent, housing styles and design are often modern and open. Recreational opportunities in the Sun Belt are often not tied strictly to one season, and many tourist and resort cities, such as Fort Lauderdale, Gulf Shores, Houston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, Myrtle Beach, New Orleans, Orlando, Palm Springs, Phoenix, San Antonio, San Diego, Tampa, and Tucson support a tourist industry all year.\nThe traditional explanations for the growth are increasing productivity in the South and West and increasing demand for Sunbelt amenities, especially its pleasant weather. Job decline in the Rust Belt is another major reason for migration.\n Question: What are the causes of population growth in the Sun Belt in the US?", "output": "Since WWII, many people have migrated from the US Midwest or Northeast to the Sun Belt. One significant factor is the milder climate and the recreational possibilities it makes possible. Economic opportunity is another factor, as many automobile and other manufacturers have left the Midwest and Northeast and built factories in the Sun Belt. The housing stock is newer and affordable, which attracts people of all ages."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hedgehogs are easily recognized by their spines, which are hollow hairs made stiff with keratin.Their spines are not poisonous or barbed and, unlike the quills of a porcupine, do not easily detach from their bodies. However, the immature animal's spines normally fall out as they are replaced with adult spines. This is called \"quilling\". Spines can also shed when the animal is diseased or under extreme stress. Hedgehogs are usually brown, with pale tips to the spines, though blonde hedgehogs are found on the Channel Island of Alderney.\n Question: Given this paragraph about hedgehogs, why are they different from porcupines?", "output": "Hedgehog spines do not easily detach rom their bodies like porcupines."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The American League of Professional Baseball Clubs, known simply as the American League (AL), is one of two leagues that make up Major League Baseball (MLB) in the United States and Canada.\n Question: How many teams are in the MLB American League", "output": "The American League consists of 15 teams (including one Canadian team) aligned in three divisions: the AL East, comprising the Baltimore Orioles, Boston Red Sox, New York Yankees, Tampa Bay Rays, and Toronto Blue Jays; the AL Central, comprising the Chicago White Sox, Cleveland Indians, Detroit Tigers, Kansas City Royals, and Minnesota Twins; and the AL West, comprising the Houston Astros, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, Oakland Athletics, Seattle Mariners, and Texas Rangers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Nicaragua has a large diaspora that make significant contributions to the economy. Recognizing that forcing them to give up Nicaraguan nationality to acquire a different nationality would impact the country, changes were made to eliminate the possibility that birthright Nicaraguans could lose their nationality. Nicaragua has dual nationality treaties with Argentina, the nations of Central America, Italy and Spain. Children born abroad who obtain nationality by birth in another place are also accepted as dual nationals. In the case that their parents are naturalized Nicaraguans, they must ratify their choice of Nicaraguan citizenship upon attaining the age of 16.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Nicaraguan nationality law, with which countries can Nicaraguan citizens obtain dual citizenship?", "output": "Nicaraguan nationals can obtain dual citizenship through joint-treaty with Argentina, Central American nations, Italy, and Spain. Children with parents who are Nicaraguan citizens that are born abroad will receive dual citizenship."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A hot dog (commonly spelled hotdog) is a food consisting of a grilled or steamed sausage served in the slit of a partially sliced bun. The term hot dog can refer to the sausage itself. The sausage used is a wiener (Vienna sausage) or a frankfurter (Frankfurter W\u00fcrstchen, also just called frank). The names of these sausages commonly refer to their assembled dish. Some consider a hot dog to technically be a sandwich. Hot dog preparation and condiments vary worldwide. Typical condiments include mustard, ketchup, relish, onions in tomato sauce, and cheese sauce. Common garnishes include sauerkraut, diced onions, jalape\u00f1os, chili, grated cheese, coleslaw, bacon, and olives. Hot dog variants include the corn dog and pigs in a blanket. The hot dog's cultural traditions include the Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest and the Oscar Mayer Wienermobile.\n\nThese types of sausages were culturally imported from Germany and became popular in the United States. It became a working-class street food in the U.S., sold at stands and carts. The hot dog became closely associated with baseball and American culture. Although particularly connected with New York City and its cuisine, the hot dog eventually became ubiquitous throughout the US during the 20th century. Its preparation varies regionally in the country, emerging as an important part of other regional cuisines, including Chicago street cuisine.\n Question: What are the common toppings that can go on a hotdog?", "output": "Common toppings or garnishes include sauerkraut, diced onions, jalape\u00f1os, chili, grated cheese, coleslaw, bacon, and olives"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Amazon rainforest, also called Amazon jungle or Amazonia, is a moist broadleaf tropical rainforest in the Amazon biome that covers most of the Amazon basin of South America. This basin encompasses 7,000,000 km2 (2,700,000 sq mi), of which 5,500,000 km2 (2,100,000 sq mi) are covered by the rainforest. This region includes territory belonging to nine nations and 3,344 formally acknowledged indigenous territories.\n\nThe majority of the forest, 60%, is in Brazil, followed by Peru with 13%, Colombia with 10%, and with minor amounts in Bolivia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Suriname, and Venezuela. Four nations have \"Amazonas\" as the name of one of their first-level administrative regions, and France uses the name \"Guiana Amazonian Park\" for French Guiana's protected rainforest area. The Amazon represents over half of the planet's remaining rainforests, and comprises the largest and most biodiverse tract of tropical rainforest in the world, with an estimated 390 billion individual trees in about 16,000 species.[\n Question: Where is Amazon rainforest located?", "output": "The Amazon jungle is located in South America. It is spanned across Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Bolivia and Ecuador"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"West Side Story is a musical conceived by Jerome Robbins with music by Leonard Bernstein, lyrics by Stephen Sondheim, and a book by Arthur Laurents.\n\nInspired by William Shakespeare's play Romeo and Juliet, the story is set in the mid-1950s in the Upper West Side of Manhattan in New York City, then a multiracial, blue-collar neighborhood. The musical explores the rivalry between the Jets and the Sharks, two teenage street gangs of different ethnic backgrounds. The Sharks, who are recent migrants from Puerto Rico, and the Jets, who are white, vie for dominance of the neighborhood, and the police try to keep order. The young protagonist, Tony, a former member of the Jets and best friend of the gang's leader, Riff, falls in love with Maria, the sister of Bernardo, the leader of the Sharks. The dark theme, sophisticated music, extended dance scenes, tragic love story, and focus on social problems marked a turning point in musical theatre.\"\n Question: Which Shakespeare play inspired West Side Story?", "output": "West Side Story was inspired by William Shakespeare's play Romeo and Juliet."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Guided Advanced Tactical Rocket (GATR) is a weapons system under development by Orbital ATK and Elbit Systems. It is intended to provide a low-cost guided missile compatible with existing unguided 70mm rocket launch platforms such as the Hydra 70. The penetrating version of the GATR is equipped with a steel-cased M282 warhead and a programmable fuze. It can be set from the cockpit to detonate on impact or after a delay and is capable of penetrating a triple-brick wall and light-vehicle armor.\n Question: Given the reference text below, what is a GATR?", "output": "A Guided Advanced Tactical Rocket (GATR) is a low-cost guided missile equipped with a steel-cased M282 warhead and a programmable fuze."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tornadoes kill an average of 179 people per year in Bangladesh, the most in the world.Reasons for this include the region's high population density, poor construction quality, and lack of tornado safety knowledge.Other areas of the world that have frequent tornadoes include South Africa, the La Plata Basin area, portions of Europe, Australia and New Zealand, and far eastern Asia.\n\nTornadoes are most common in spring and least common in winter, but tornadoes can occur any time of year that favorable conditions occur.Spring and fall experience peaks of activity as those are the seasons when stronger winds, wind shear, and atmospheric instability are present.Tornadoes are focused in the right front quadrant of landfalling tropical cyclones, which tend to occur in the late summer and autumn. Tornadoes can also be spawned as a result of eyewall mesovortices, which persist until landfall.\nsource : https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tornado\n Question: The United States has the most tornadoes of any country, nearly four times more than estimated in all of Europe then why does most death related to tornadoes occur in Bangladesh", "output": "Reasons for this include Bangladesh high population density, poor construction quality, and lack of tornado safety knowledge."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: U2 are an Irish rock band from Dublin, formed in 1976. The group consists of Bono (lead vocals and rhythm guitar), the Edge (lead guitar, keyboards, and backing vocals), Adam Clayton (bass guitar), and Larry Mullen Jr. (drums and percussion). Initially rooted in post-punk, U2's musical style has evolved throughout their career, yet has maintained an anthemic quality built on Bono's expressive vocals and the Edge's chiming, effects-based guitar sounds. Bono's lyrics, often embellished with spiritual imagery, focus on personal and sociopolitical themes. Popular for their live performances, the group have staged several ambitious and elaborate tours over their career.\n Question: What city in Ireland is the band U2 from?", "output": "Dublin"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Fairmont has a humid continental climate (K\u00f6ppen Dfa) with very warm summers and freezing winters. However, it is not uncommon during winter for warm air from the Gulf of Mexico to raise temperatures above 50 \u00b0F or 10 \u00b0C, which occurs on average six times each January and over eight in December and February. In contrast, when very cold air from Canada moves into West Virginia temperatures can go below 0 \u00b0F or \u221217.8 \u00b0C, which can be expected during 3.2 mornings each winter, but which occurred on twelve mornings during the extremely cold January 1977, whose average temperature of 16.0 \u00b0F or \u22128.9 \u00b0C was the coldest month on record by 4.0 \u00b0F or 2.2 \u00b0C. Despite the abundant precipitation throughout the year, the relative dryness of cold air means that most precipitation is rain even during the winter: the most snowfall in a month being 46.5 inches (1.18 m) is November 1950, and the most in a season 77.4 inches (1.97 m) between July 1950 and June 1951. The least snow in a season has been 12.0 inches (0.30 m) between July 1918 and June 1919, whilst the wettest calendar year has been 1956 with 58.12 inches (1,476.2 mm) and the driest \u2013 as with all of West Virginia \u2013 1930 with 26.25 inches (666.8 mm). The hottest temperature has been 108 \u00b0F (42.2 \u00b0C) on August 8, 1918, and the coldest \u221221 \u00b0F (\u221229.4 \u00b0C) on January 21, 1994.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the climate in Fairmont, West Virginia, what was the coldest month in the city's history, and what was the average temperature during that month?", "output": "January of 1977 was the coldest month in the history of Fairmont, West Virginia with an average of 16.0 degrees Farenheit."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ramona Singer (n\u00e9e Mazur; born November 18, 1956) is an American television personality, businesswoman, and author. She is best known as a main cast member on the reality television series The Real Housewives of New York City, in which she has starred in the first 13 seasons from 2008 to 2021.\n Question: Who is Ramona Singer?", "output": "Ramona Singer is best known as a Real Housewife of New York City. She was the founder of RMS Fashion and helped her husband Mario Singer start True Faith Jewelry, the couple has since divorced."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Meteor Crater is a popular tourist destination with roughly 270,000 visitors per year. The crater is owned by a family company, the Barringer Crater Company. Meteor Crater is an important educational and research site. It was used to train Apollo astronauts and continues to be an active training site for astronauts. The Meteor Crater Visitor Center sits on the north rim of the crater. It features interactive exhibits and displays about meteorites and asteroids, space, the Solar System, and comets including the American Astronaut Wall of Fame and such artifacts on display as an Apollo boilerplate command module (BP-29), a 1,406 lb (638 kg) meteorite found in the area, and meteorite specimens from Meteor Crater that can be touched. Formerly known as the Museum of Astrogeology, the Visitor Center includes a Discovery Center & Space Museum, a movie theater, a gift shop, and observation areas with views inside the rim of the crater. Guided tours of the rim are offered daily, weather permitting.\n Question: Give an example of places where astronauts are trained?", "output": "Meteor Crater a tourist destination is one of the places where astronauts are trained."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Big Bang event is a physical theory that describes how the universe expanded from an initial state of high density and temperature. Various cosmological models of the Big Bang explain the evolution of the observable universe from the earliest known periods through its subsequent large-scale form. These models offer a comprehensive explanation for a broad range of observed phenomena, including the abundance of light elements, the cosmic microwave background (CMB) radiation, and large-scale structure. The overall uniformity of the Universe, known as the flatness problem, is explained through cosmic inflation: a sudden and very rapid expansion of space during the earliest moments. However, physics currently lacks a widely accepted theory of quantum gravity that can successfully model the earliest conditions of the Big Bang.\n Question: How was the universe created?", "output": "We can't know for sure but a popular theory called the Big Bang suggests that the universe was created from an infinitesimally small point of infinite energy some four and a half billion years ago."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Martin Luther King Jr. (born Michael King Jr.; January 15, 1929 \u2013 April 4, 1968) was an American Baptist minister and activist who was one of the most prominent leaders in the civil rights movement from 1955 until his assassination in 1968. A Black church leader and a son of early civil rights activist and minister Martin Luther King Sr., King advanced civil rights for people of color in the United States through nonviolence and civil disobedience. Inspired by his Christian beliefs and the nonviolent activism of Mahatma Gandhi, he led targeted, nonviolent resistance against Jim Crow laws and other forms of discrimination in the United States.\n\nKing participated in and led marches for the right to vote, desegregation, labor rights, and other civil rights. He oversaw the 1955 Montgomery bus boycott and later became the first president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC). As president of the SCLC, he led the unsuccessful Albany Movement in Albany, Georgia, and helped organize some of the nonviolent 1963 protests in Birmingham, Alabama. King was one of the leaders of the 1963 March on Washington, where he delivered his \"I Have a Dream\" speech on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. The civil rights movement achieved pivotal legislative gains in the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Voting Rights Act of 1965, and the Fair Housing Act of 1968.\n\nThe SCLC put into practice the tactics of nonviolent protest with some success by strategically choosing the methods and places in which protests were carried out. There were several dramatic standoffs with segregationist authorities, who frequently responded violently. King was jailed several times. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) director J. Edgar Hoover considered King a radical and made him an object of the FBI's COINTELPRO from 1963 forward. FBI agents investigated him for possible communist ties, spied on his personal life, and secretly recorded him. In 1964, the FBI mailed King a threatening anonymous letter, which he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide.\n\nOn October 14, 1964, King won the Nobel Peace Prize for combating racial inequality through nonviolent resistance. In 1965, he helped organize two of the three Selma to Montgomery marches. In his final years, he expanded his focus to include opposition towards poverty, capitalism, and the Vietnam War. In 1968, King was planning a national occupation of Washington, D.C., to be called the Poor People's Campaign, when he was assassinated on April 4 in Memphis, Tennessee. His death was followed by national mourning, as well as anger leading to riots in many U.S. cities. King was posthumously awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1977 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 2003. Martin Luther King Jr. Day was established as a holiday in cities and states throughout the United States beginning in 1971; the federal holiday was first observed in 1986. Hundreds of streets in the U.S. have been renamed in his honor, and King County in Washington was rededicated for him. The Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., was dedicated in 2011.\n Question: Given this paragraph about a Civil Rights Leader, tell me when they were born, their occupation, and a famous accomplishment.", "output": "Martin Luther King Jr. (MLK) was born January 15, 1929.  He was an American Baptist Minister and activist who won the Nobel Peace Prize for combating racial inequality through nonviolent resistance in October 14, 1964."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Solveig Margrete Fiske (born 26 October 1952) is a theologian and bishop emerita in the Church of Norway, serving as the bishop of Hamar between 2006 and 2022, when she retired.\n\nOriginally from Frei in M\u00f8re og Romsdal, she graduated from the Free Faculty of Theology (now the MF Norwegian School of Theology) in 1980, and completed her practical examinations there in 1981. She briefly worked as a consultant for the Church Council in 1981, followed by an assignment to the parish in Elverum as a chaplain between 1982 and 1994. In 1994, she became the parish priest in L\u00f8ten, a position she held for 12 years.\n Question: Who is Solveig Margrete Fiske", "output": "Solveig Margrete Fiske (born 26 October 1952) is a theologian and bishop emerita in the Church of Norway, serving as the bishop of Hamar between 2006 and 2022, when she retired."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: London is a 2005 Indian Tamil-language comedy-drama film written by Badri and directed by Sundar C.  Bhaskaran hides the money before getting arrested, and the place is known only to his lawyer Vedimuthu. Aishwarya pretends to be in love with Vedimuthu to find where the money is hidden.\n Question: In which movie or plot the character vedimuthu was established", "output": "Vedimuthu character was potrayed by Vadivelu and become famous for his comic potrayal of act of love with mistress Aishwarya (potrayed by mumtaz) and getting caught in the act to his wife Baby(potrayed by Nalini)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The human brain is the central organ of the human nervous system, and with the spinal cord makes up the central nervous system. The brain consists of the cerebrum, the brainstem and the cerebellum. It controls most of the activities of the body, processing, integrating, and coordinating the information it receives from the sense organs, and making decisions as to the instructions sent to the rest of the body. The brain is contained in, and protected by, the skull bones of the head.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the human brain, how does my brain know that I'm touching something hot?", "output": "Humans process information from the various sensory systems via the central nervous system. The nerves in your hand are integral to your sense of touch. When your fingers touch something hot, the nerves in your hand quickly transmit that information through the nervous system to the central nervous system. After processing an electrochemical signal up through the spine, the sensory signal is eventually received in the human brain. The brain takes action and, in this case, initiates an instinctual retraction of the hand."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Halt and Catch Fire is an American period drama television series created by Christopher Cantwell and Christopher C. Rogers. It aired on the cable network AMC in the United States from June 1, 2014, to October 14, 2017, spanning four seasons and 40 episodes. It depicts a fictionalized insider's view of the personal computer revolution of the 1980s and the early days of the World Wide Web in the early 1990s. The show's title refers to computer machine code instruction Halt and Catch Fire (HCF), the execution of which would cause the computer's central processing unit to cease meaningful operation (and in an exaggeration, catch fire).\n Question: What is Halt and Catch Fire about?", "output": "Halt and Catch Fire is an American period drama spanning four seasons and 40 episodes. It depicts a fictionalized insider's view of the personal computer revolution of the 1980s and the early days of the World Wide Web in the early 1990s."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The islands are located in the eastern Pacific Ocean, 973 km (605 mi) off the west coast of South America. The majority of islands are also more broadly part of the South Pacific. The closest land mass is that of mainland Ecuador, the country to which they belong, 926 km (500 nmi) to the east.\n\n\nOrthographic projection centered over the Gal\u00e1pagos.\n\nSchool of scalloped hammerheads, Wolf Island, Gal\u00e1pagos Islands.\n\nGrapsus grapsus on the rocks.\n\nSatellite photo of the Gal\u00e1pagos islands overlaid with the names of the visible main islands.\n\nIsabela seen from Spot Satellite.\n\nWaved albatrosses on Espa\u00f1ola.\n\nGal\u00e1pagos marine iguana.\n\nMain Street on San Crist\u00f3bal Island.\nAn animated tour of the Gal\u00e1pagos.\nNASA oceanographer Gene Carl Feldman reflects on his unique perspective on this region.\nThe islands are found at the coordinates 1\u00b040'N\u20131\u00b036'S, 89\u00b016'\u201392\u00b001'W. Straddling the equator, islands in the chain are located in both the northern and southern hemispheres, with Volc\u00e1n Wolf and Volc\u00e1n Ecuador on Isla Isabela being directly on the equator. Espa\u00f1ola Island, the southernmost islet of the archipelago, and Darwin Island, the northernmost one, are spread out over a distance of 220 km (137 mi). The International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) considers them wholly within the South Pacific Ocean, however The Gal\u00e1pagos Archipelago consists of 7,880 km2 (3,040 sq mi) of land spread over 45,000 km2 (17,000 sq mi) of ocean. The largest of the islands, Isabela, measures 2,250 square miles (5,800 km2)and makes up close to three-quarters of the total land area of the Gal\u00e1pagos. Volc\u00e1n Wolf on Isabela is the highest point, with an elevation of 1,707 m (5,600 ft) above sea level.\n\nThe group consists of 18 main islands, 3 smaller islands, and 107 rocks and islets. The islands are located at the Galapagos Triple Junction. The archipelago is located on the Nazca Plate (a tectonic plate), which is moving east/southeast, diving under the South American Plate at a rate of about 2.5 inches (6.4 cm) per year.It is also atop the Gal\u00e1pagos hotspot, a place where the Earth's crust is being melted from below by a mantle plume, creating volcanoes. The first islands formed here at least 8 million and possibly up to 90 million years ago.\n\nWhile the older islands have disappeared below the sea as they moved away from the mantle plume, the youngest islands, Isabela and Fernandina, are still being formed. In April 2009, lava from the volcanic island Fernandina started flowing both towards the island's shoreline and into the center caldera.\n\nIn late June 2018, Sierra Negra, one of five volcanoes on Isabela and one of the most active in the Galapagos archipelago, began erupting for the first time since 2005. Lava flows made their way to the coastline, prompting the evacuation of about fifty nearby residents and restricting tourist access.\n Question: Where is Galapogas Island located? What is the area of Galapogas? How many islands are there in total? When was the first island formed? What are few Volcanos in Galapogas?", "output": "The islands are located in the eastern Pacific Ocean, 973 km off the west coast of South America. The islands are found at the coordinates 1\u00b040'N\u20131\u00b036'S, 89\u00b016'\u201392\u00b001'W\n\n7,880 km2 of land is the total area of Galapogos Island.\n\nThe group consists of 18 main islands, 3 smaller islands.\n\nThe first islands formed here at least 8 million and possibly up to 90 million years ago\n\nSierra Negra is one of the five volcanoes."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: 2019: Record third Hopman Cup, 100th title, 1200th match win and 12th Wimbledon final\nMain article: 2019 Roger Federer tennis season\nFederer opened his campaign by retaining the Hopman Cup alongside Belinda Bencic, becoming the first player to win the mixed-gender event three times.\n\nFederer was seeded third at the 2019 Australian Open, entering as the two-time defending champion. He defeated Denis Istomin, Dan Evans, and Taylor Fritz to reach the fourth round, where he faced 14th seed Stefanos Tsitsipas. In a stunning upset, Tsitsipas defeated Federer in four close sets. Critically, Federer was unable to convert any of the twelve break points he held throughout the match, including four set points in the second set. After the match Federer announced he would play the clay court season for the first time since 2016.\n\nAt the Dubai Tennis Championships Federer won his 100th Career Singles Title, beating Tsitsipas in straight sets in the final. It was his eighth title in Dubai and he became only the second man after Jimmy Connors to reach the three figure mark in the Open Era. Federer then reached the final of the 2019 Indian Wells Masters where he lost to Dominic Thiem in three sets. On 31 March, Federer defeated John Isner at the 2019 Miami Open in straights sets to win his 4th Miami Open title and 28th Masters title. Federer then played his first clay court tournament in three years at the 2019 Madrid Open and secured his 1200th career win, beating Ga\u00ebl Monfils in the third round. In the quarterfinals he lost to Dominic Thiem again in three sets, despite having two match points in the second set. Federer then played at the Italian Open and reached the quarterfinals but was forced to withdraw from his quarterfinal match against Stefanos Tsitsipas due to a right leg injury.\n\nFederer next played at the French Open for the first time in 4 years and seeded 3rd in the draw. Federer achieved comfortable straight-set victories against Lorenzo Sonego, Oscar Otte, Casper Ruud and Leonardo Mayer to reach the quarterfinals, where he faced good friend and compatriot Stan Wawrinka. Federer managed to avenge his loss to Wawrinka at the same stage of the tournament 4 years ago, winning in 4 sets after 3 hours and 35 minutes. With the victory Federer returned to the semifinals of the French Open for the first time since 2012, where he lost to defending and 11-time champion Rafael Nadal in straight sets.\n\nFederer then began his grass court season at the Halle Open where he won his tenth title at the event, defeating David Goffin in the final in straight sets. This marked the first time Federer had won a singles tournament ten times or more. At Wimbledon, Roger Federer reached his record 12th final at the tournament after ousting his nemesis Rafael Nadal in four sets in the semifinal; thus, exacting revenge for his earlier defeat to him at the French Open. This was also the first time Federer played Nadal at Wimbledon since the 2008 Wimbledon final, a match regarded by some as the greatest match in the history of tennis. Federer then faced Novak Djokovic in the final, against whom he lost in a five set thriller lasting 4 hours and 57 minutes, despite having two championship points on serve in the fifth set. The match also marked the first time a fifth set tiebreaker was played at 12 games all in the men's singles and was the longest men's final in Wimbledon history.\n\nFederer next played at the 2019 Cincinnati Masters and reached the third round where he lost in straight sets to Andrey Rublev. This was his quickest defeat in 16 years, taking just 62 minutes. At the 2019 US Open, he was seeded third. He dropped the first set against both Sumit Nagal and Damir D\u017eumhur in the first two rounds, but pulled out convincing straight sets wins over Dan Evans and David Goffin in the third and fourth. In the quarterfinals, he faced Grigor Dimitrov, who was ranked No. 78 going into the tournament. Despite taking a two sets to one lead, Federer ultimately lost the match in five sets. At the 2019 Shanghai Masters, Federer defeated David Goffin in straight sets to reach the quarterfinals. However, he lost the quarterfinal to Alexander Zverev in three sets.\n\nFederer advanced to the Swiss Indoors as the two-time defending champion. His first round match, against Peter Gojowczyk, was remarkable for being the 1500th match of his career. In the final, he defeated Alex de Minaur in straight sets for a record-extending tenth Swiss Indoors title. Federer then played in the Bj\u00f6rn Borg group at the 2019 ATP Finals where in the round robin, he lost his opening match to Dominic Thiem in straight sets but beat Matteo Berrettini and Djokovic (his first win over Djokovic since 2015) in straight sets to qualify for the semifinals. He then lost the semifinal to Stefanos Tsitsipas in straight sets.\n\n2020: Australian Open semifinals and right knee surgery\nFederer began his 2020 season at the 2020 Australian Open. He reached the semifinals after straight sets wins over Steve Johnson and Filip Krajinovi\u0107, a five-set win over John Millman and a four-set win over M\u00e1rton Fucsovics. Federer saved seven match points in his five-set quarterfinal win over Tennys Sandgren. Federer then lost his semifinal match to Djokovic in straight sets, having sustained a groin injury earlier in the tournament. In February, Federer underwent arthroscopic surgery for a right knee injury and subsequently withdrew from the Dubai Championships, Indian Wells, Miami Open, and the French Open to give time for his knee to recover, announcing that he would return in the grass season. On 10 June, due to a setback from his initial rehabilitation from the knee injury suffered earlier in the year, Federer announced that he had to have an additional arthroscopic procedure on his right knee. He officially shut down his season to take the necessary time to recover, vowing to return in 2021. This was only the second year in Federer's career since he won his first title that he finished without a title.\n\n2021: Wimbledon quarterfinal and last singles match, injuries\nIn January, Federer withdrew from the 2021 Australian Open due to still recovering from knee surgery and strict COVID-19 quarantine measures in Australia. On 8 March, Novak Djokovic surpassed him for the most career weeks spent as the ATP number 1 ranked player. On 10 March, he made his return to the ATP Tour at the Qatar Open. He won his first ATP match in 14 months against Dan Evans, but lost to Nikoloz Basilashvili in the quarterfinals.\n\nFederer then played at the Geneva Open where he lost his opening match to Pablo And\u00fajar in three sets. After defeating Dominik Koepfer of Germany in four sets in the third round, Federer advanced to the fourth round at the French Open. However, he withdrew from the tournament before his fourth-round match citing knee problems, giving a walkover to Matteo Berrettini of Italy.\n\nIn 2021 Halle Open where he was seeded fifth, he lost in the second round to F\u00e9lix Auger-Aliassime. Federer was playing against the 20-year-old for the first time. Their 19-year age difference was the biggest in Federer's 1,521 career matches. This was the earliest exit at this tournament for Federer who was seeking his 70th match win in Halle, and his 18th quarterfinal at this event in as many appearances. At Wimbledon, 39-year-old Federer advanced to the quarterfinals and thus became the oldest Wimbledon quarterfinalist in the Open Era, breaking the record held by Ken Rosewall, following wins over Adrian Mannarino by retirement, Richard Gasquet, 29th seed Cameron Norrie, and 23rd seed Lorenzo Sonego. However, he was then upset by 14th seed Hubert Hurkacz in the quarterfinal in straight sets. This was the first time in 19 years at Wimbledon he had lost in straight sets, and only the second time he had lost a set 6\u20130 in the 21st century (the previous occasion was against Nadal in the 2008 French Open final).\n\nOn 15 August, Federer announced that he underwent another knee surgery after further injury during the grass court season. He withdrew from the US Open and stated that he would be off the tour for \"many months,\" but he hoped to make a return to the tour in 2022.\n\n2022: Retirement and farewell alongside rivals\nFederer did not play after Wimbledon 2021, and dropped out of the top 50 on 13 June 2022. On 11 July 2022, he became unranked for the first time since his professional debut.\n\nHowever, Federer announced that he was set to return to the tour at the 2022 Laver Cup in September. On 15 September 2022, he announced his impending retirement from professional tennis on the ATP Tour, noting that the Laver Cup would be his final ATP event. He stated that he \"will play more tennis in the future, of course, but just not in Grand Slams or on the tour.\" His final match resulted in a loss in doubles partnering long-time rival and friend Rafael Nadal, against Jack Sock and Frances Tiafoe. The match was his 1750th on the tour.\n Question: Which was the longest Wimbledon men's final?", "output": "The 2019 men's final was the longest final in Wimbledon's history, lasting 4 hours and 57 minutes. Roger Federer faced Novak Djokovic in this match and lost to him in five sets."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The history of Bangkok dates at least back to the early 15th century, to when it was a village on the west bank of the Chao Phraya River, under the rule of Ayutthaya. Because of its strategic location near the mouth of the river, the town gradually increased in importance. Bangkok initially served as a customs outpost with forts on both sides of the river, and was the site of a siege in 1688 in which the French were expelled from Siam. After the fall of Ayutthaya to the Burmese in 1767, the newly crowned King Taksin established his capital at the town, which became the base of the Thonburi Kingdom. In 1782, King Phutthayotfa Chulalok (Rama I) succeeded Taksin, moved the capital to the eastern bank's Rattanakosin Island, thus founding the Rattanakosin Kingdom. The City Pillar was erected on 21 April 1782, which is regarded as the date of foundation of Bangkok as the capital.\n Question: Given this paragraph, what are the two Kingdoms that used Bangkok as their capital city.", "output": "Thonburi Kingdom and Rattanakosin Kingdom are the two Kingdoms that used Bangkok as their capital city. Thonburi Kingdom used the western bank of Bangkok as its capital city. While Rattanakosin Kingdom used Bangkok's eastern bank as its capital city,."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The blood hammer phenomenon is a sudden increase of the upstream blood pressure in a blood vessel (especially artery or arteriole) when the bloodstream is abruptly blocked by vessel obstruction. The term \"blood-hammer\" was introduced in cerebral hemodynamics by analogy with the hydraulic expression \"water hammer\", already used in vascular physiology to designate an arterial pulse variety, the \"water-hammer pulse\". Complete understanding of the relationship between mechanical parameters in vascular occlusions is a critical issue, which can play an important role in the future diagnosis, understanding and treatment of vascular diseases.\n Question: Given a reference text about the blood hammer phenomenon, tell me the background of the term \"blood-hammer\".", "output": "The term \"blood-hammer\" was introduced by analogy with the hydraulic expression \"water hammer\" that was already used in vascular physiology."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pink Floyd are an English rock band formed in London in 1965. Gaining an early following as one of the first British psychedelic groups, they were distinguished by their extended compositions, sonic experimentation, philosophical lyrics and elaborate live shows. They became a leading band of the progressive rock genre, cited by some as the greatest progressive rock band of all time.\n\nPink Floyd were founded in 1965 by Syd Barrett (guitar, lead vocals), Nick Mason (drums), Roger Waters (bass guitar, vocals), and Richard Wright (keyboards, vocals). Under Barrett's leadership, they released two charting singles and the successful debut album The Piper at the Gates of Dawn (1967). The guitarist and vocalist David Gilmour joined in January 1968; Barrett left in April 1968 due to deteriorating mental health. Waters became the primary lyricist and thematic leader, devising the concepts behind Pink Floyd's most successful albums, The Dark Side of the Moon (1973), Wish You Were Here (1975), Animals (1977) and The Wall (1979). The musical film based on The Wall, Pink Floyd \u2013 The Wall (1982), won two BAFTA Awards. Pink Floyd also composed several film scores.\n\nFollowing personal tensions, Wright left Pink Floyd in 1981, followed by Waters in 1985. Gilmour and Mason continued as Pink Floyd, rejoined later by Wright. They produced the albums A Momentary Lapse of Reason (1987) and The Division Bell (1994), backed by major tours, before entering a long hiatus. In 2005, all but Barrett reunited for a performance at the global awareness event Live 8. Barrett died in 2006, and Wright in 2008. The last Pink Floyd studio album, The Endless River (2014), was based on unreleased material from the Division Bell recording sessions. In 2022, Gilmour and Mason reformed Pink Floyd to release the song \"Hey, Hey, Rise Up!\" in protest of the Russo-Ukrainian War.\n\nBy 2013, Pink Floyd had sold more than 250 million records worldwide, making them one of the best-selling music artists of all time. The Dark Side of the Moon and The Wall were inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame, and these albums and Wish You Were Here are among the best-selling albums of all time. Four Pink Floyd albums topped the US Billboard 200, and five topped the UK Albums Chart. Pink Floyd's hit singles include \"See Emily Play\" (1967), \"Money\" (1973), \"Another Brick in the Wall, Part 2\" (1979), \"Not Now John\" (1983), \"On the Turning Away\" (1987) and \"High Hopes\" (1994). They were inducted into the US Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1996 and the UK Music Hall of Fame in 2005. In 2008, Pink Floyd were awarded the Polar Music Prize in Sweden for their contribution to modern music.\n Question: Given a reference text about the rock band Pink Floy: What was the name of Pink Floyd's last album and when was it released?", "output": "The last album of Pink Floyd was called \"The Endless River\" and was released in 2014."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bullimore is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\nTony Bullimore (1939\u20132018), English sailor and businessman\nWayne Bullimore (born 1970), English footballer\n Question: Is Bullimore a first name?", "output": "No, it is a surname."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Victoria Inn is a heritage-listed former hotel and restaurant at 20-22 Jellore Street, Berrima, Wingecarribee Shire, New South Wales, Australia. It is also known as Queen Victoria Inn and Allington. It was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\nHistory\nThe inn was built by Joseph Levy, an ex-convict turned prominent businessman, and was first licensed in 1840, operating as both an inn and brewery. Philip Solomon was the initial licensee. There is evidence in an early painting that the building once had a verandah.\n\nIt was sold early in 1863, and no record of it operating as an inn in its original incarnation appears thereafter. An 1868 report refers to it in the past-tense, but notes that its stables were still in use by Cobb and Co.\n\nIt later became a residence known as Allington and became the surgery of Dr. George Lambert in 1876.\n\nIt operated as \"Arlington House\" or \"Arlington Inn\" for a period c. 1960s, but had resumed its original name by the late 1970s.\n\nThe stables and boarding house were later refurbished as a restaurant, operating as the Victoria Inn Restaurant. It hosted Governor-General of Australia Zelman Cowen in 1986. It is no longer in operation.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Victoria Inn, who built it and when was it sold?", "output": "The Victoria Inn was built by Joseph Levy and was sold in early 1863."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In marketing, customer lifetime value (CLV or often CLTV), lifetime customer value (LCV), or life-time value (LTV) is a prognostication of the net profit contributed to the whole future relationship with a customer. The prediction model can have varying levels of sophistication and accuracy, ranging from a crude heuristic to the use of complex predictive analytics techniques.\n\nCustomer lifetime value can also be defined as the monetary value of a customer relationship, based on the present value of the projected future cash flows from the customer relationship. Customer lifetime value is an important concept in that it encourages firms to shift their focus from quarterly profits to the long-term health of their customer relationships. Customer lifetime value is an important metric because it represents an upper limit on spending to acquire new customers. For this reason it is an important element in calculating payback of advertising spent in marketing mix modeling.\n\nOne of the first accounts of the term customer lifetime value is in the 1988 book Database Marketing, which includes detailed worked examples. Early adopters of customer lifetime value models in the 1990s include Edge Consulting and BrandScience.\n Question: What are all the different ways of saying customer lifetime value?", "output": "Customer lifetime value is commonly referred to as customer lifetime value (CLV or often CLTV), lifetime customer value (LCV), or life-time value (LTV)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Arlington Public Schools operates the county's public K-12 education system of 22 elementary schools; 6 middle schools (Dorothy Hamm Middle School, Gunston Middle School, Kenmore Middle School, Swanson Middle School, Thomas Jefferson Middle School, and Williamsburg Middle School); and 3 public high schools (Wakefield High School, Washington-Liberty High School, and Yorktown High School). H-B Woodlawn and Arlington Tech are alternative public schools. Arlington County spends about half of its local revenues on education. For the FY2013 budget, 83 percent of funding was from local revenues, and 12 percent from the state. Per pupil expenditures are expected to average $18,700, well above its neighbors, Fairfax County ($13,600) and Montgomery County ($14,900).\n Question: Given this paragraph about Arlington, Virginia, what are the 3 public high schools in Arlington?", "output": "The 3 public high schools in Arlington, Va are Wakefield High School, Washington-Liberty High School, and Yorktown High School."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The British Empire was composed of the dominions, colonies, protectorates, mandates, and other territories ruled or administered by the United Kingdom and its predecessor states. It began with the overseas possessions and trading posts established by England between the late 16th and early 18th centuries. At its height it was the largest empire in history and, for over a century, was the foremost global power. By 1913, the British Empire held sway over 412 million people, 23 per cent of the world population at the time, and by 1920, it covered 35.5 million km2 (13.7 million sq mi), 24 per cent of the Earth's total land area. As a result, its constitutional, legal, linguistic, and cultural legacy is widespread. At the peak of its power, it was described as \"the empire on which the sun never sets\", as the Sun was always shining on at least one of its territories.\n Question: What percentage of the world's population did the British Empire hold sway over?", "output": "23 per cent of the world population"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Grand-Lahou Department was created in 1988 as a first-level subdivision via a split-off from Abidjan Department.\n\nIn 1997, regions were introduced as new first-level subdivisions of Ivory Coast; as a result, all departments were converted into second-level subdivisions. Grand-Lahou Department was included in Lagunes Region.\n\nIn 2011, districts were introduced as new first-level subdivisions of Ivory Coast. At the same time, regions were reorganised and became second-level subdivisions and all departments were converted into third-level subdivisions. At this time, Grand-Lahou Department became part of Grands-Ponts Region in Lagunes District.\n Question: here is some text about Grand-Lahou Department, What year did Grand-Lahou become part of Lagunes District?", "output": "In 2011."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A battery storage power station is a type of energy storage power station that uses a group of batteries to store electrical energy. Battery storage is the fastest responding dispatchable source of power on electric grids, and it is used to stabilise those grids, as battery storage can transition from standby to full power in under a second to deal with grid contingencies.\n\nAt full rated power, battery storage power stations are generally designed to output for up to a few hours. Battery storage can be used for short-term peak power and ancillary services, such as providing operating reserve and frequency control to minimize the chance of power outages. They are often installed at, or close to, other active or disused power stations and may share the same grid connection to reduce costs. Since battery storage plants require no deliveries of fuel, are compact compared to generating stations and have no chimneys or large cooling systems, they can be rapidly installed and placed if necessary within urban areas, close to customer load.\n Question: How long does it typically take a battery storage power station to transition to full power from standby?", "output": "Under a second"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kyoto is one of the oldest municipalities in Japan, having been chosen in 794 as the new seat of Japan's imperial court by Emperor Kanmu. The original city, named Heian-ky\u014d, was arranged in accordance with traditional Chinese feng shui following the model of the ancient Chinese capitals of Chang'an and Luoyang. The emperors of Japan ruled from Kyoto in the following eleven centuries until 1869. It was the scene of several key events of the Muromachi period, Sengoku period, and the Boshin War, such as the \u014cnin War, the Honn\u014d-ji Incident, the Kinmon incident and the Battle of Toba\u2013Fushimi. The capital was relocated from Kyoto to Tokyo after the Meiji Restoration.\n Question: When was Kyoto the capital of Japan?", "output": "The emperors of Japan ruled from Kyoto from 794 as the new seat of Japan's imperial court for eleven centuries until 1869."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Charles Wing Krafft (September 19, 1947 \u2013 June 12, 2020) was an American painter and ceramicist whose later work incorporated traditional ceramic decorative styles to produce works commemorating modern disasters. In 1998, he was called \"the dark angel of Seattle art\" by the art critic of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. In early 2013 it was revealed that he participated in white nationalist and Holocaust denial websites, which led to a re-evaluation of his artwork.\n\nEarly life\nCharles Krafft was born in Seattle in 1947, and grew up near the Seattle Art Museum, which he frequented, leading to his initial interest in art. In his teenage years, he became interested in the writings of Jack Kerouac and the artwork of Von Dutch, a prominent custom car designer, gunsmith and explosives specialist. He later became fascinated by the art of Morris Graves and the Northwest School. He has named Von Dutch and Graves as his \"greatest inspirations\". He also spent time with Guy Anderson, also of the Northwest School. He soon moved into a cabin in an artists' commune in Fishtown, near La Conner, Washington, where he lived for 12 years. Initially he went there to attempt to learn to meditate. Although this failed, he first began painting there.\n Question: Given a reference text about Charles Wing Krafft, tell me where he was born and his occupation.", "output": "Charles Wing Krafft was born in Seattle and was a painter and ceramicist."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Nikola Popla\u0161en (\u041d\u0438\u043a\u043e\u043b\u0430 \u041f\u043e\u043f\u043b\u0430\u0448\u0435\u043d; born 15 December 1951 in Sombor) is a former Bosnian Serb politician. He was the president of Republika Srpska from late 1998 to 1999. He was removed by the High Representative of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Carlos Westendorp, on 5 March 1999. The removal was enforced on 2 September 1999.\n\nFollowing his removal from the presidency, he also worked as a member of the Senate of Republika Srpska. He testified as a defense witness for Radovan Karad\u017ei\u0107 in his trial.\n\nBosnian War\nFollowing the outbreak of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Popla\u0161en left Sarajevo with his family to work for the newly-formed government of Republika Srpska in Pale. There he served as a member of the Advisory of Serb Democratic Party and also personally advised Radovan Karad\u017ei\u0107. However, he left SDS in 1992 and founded the Serbian Radical Party of Republika Srpska. Subsequently, he worked as a commissioner for the government of Republika Srpska in Vogo\u0161\u0107a up to December 1992. He saw combat and was formally given the title of a Chetnik Vojvoda by Vojislav \u0160e\u0161elj.\n Question: What was Nikola Popla\u0161en's profession?", "output": "Nikola Popla\u0161en was a Bosnian Serb politician, president of the Republika Srpska from late 1998 to 1999."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The World War II Soviet submarine L-21 belonged to the L-class or Leninets class of minelayer submarines. She was part of the last series (Group 4) of her class, having some improvements including more torpedo tubes. The commander during the war was Sergey S. Mogilevskiy.\n Question: Given this short paragraph about the L-21 submarine, what was an example of an improvement made compared to earlier versions?", "output": "The L-21 had more torpedo tubes."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Boot loaders may face peculiar constraints, especially in size; for instance, on the earlier IBM PC and compatibles, a boot sector should typically work in only 32 KiB (later relaxed to 64 KiB) of system memory and only use instructions supported by the original 8088/8086 processors. The first stage of PC boot loaders (FSBL, first-stage boot loader) located on fixed disks and removable drives must fit into the first 446 bytes of the Master boot record in order to leave room for the default 64-byte partition table with four partition entries and the two-byte boot signature, which the BIOS requires for a proper boot loader \u2014 or even less, when additional features like more than four partition entries (up to 16 with 16 bytes each), a disk signature (6 bytes), a disk timestamp (6 bytes), an Advanced Active Partition (18 bytes) or special multi-boot loaders have to be supported as well in some environments. In floppy and superfloppy volume boot records, up to 59 bytes are occupied for the extended BIOS parameter block on FAT12 and FAT16 volumes since DOS 4.0, whereas the FAT32 EBPB introduced with DOS 7.1 requires even 87 bytes, leaving only 423 bytes for the boot loader when assuming a sector size of 512 bytes. Microsoft boot sectors therefore traditionally imposed certain restrictions on the boot process, for example, the boot file had to be located at a fixed position in the root directory of the file system and stored as consecutive sectors,conditions taken care of by the SYS command and slightly relaxed in later versions of DOS.The boot loader was then able to load the first three sectors of the file into memory, which happened to contain another embedded boot loader able to load the remainder of the file into memory.When Microsoft added LBA and FAT32 support, they even switched to a boot loader reaching over two physical sectors and using 386 instructions for size reasons. At the same time other vendors managed to squeeze much more functionality into a single boot sector without relaxing the original constraints on only minimal available memory (32 KiB) and processor support (8088/8086). For example, DR-DOS boot sectors are able to locate the boot file in the FAT12, FAT16 and FAT32 file system, and load it into memory as a whole via CHS or LBA, even if the file is not stored in a fixed location and in consecutive sectors.\n\nBIOS and UEFI not only load the operating system from a non-volatile device, they also initialize system hardware for operating system.\n\nExamples of first-stage bootloaders include BIOS, coreboot, Libreboot and Das U-Boot.\n Question: What is First-stage boot loader", "output": "The first-stage bootloader (FSBL) is the first boot stage for the HPS. In FPGA Configuration First mode, the SDM extracts and loads the FSBL into the on-chip RAM of the HPS. The SDM releases the HPS from reset after the FPGA has entered user mode. After the HPS exits reset, it uses the FSBL hardware handoff file to setup the clocks, HPS dedicated I/Os, and peripherals. Typically, the FSBL then loads the SSBL into HPS SDRAM and passes the control to the SSBL."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The longest documented and verified human lifespan is that of Jeanne Calment of France (1875\u20131997), a woman who lived to age 122 years and 164 days. She claimed to have met Vincent van Gogh when she was 12 or 13. She received news media attention in 1985, after turning 110. Calment's claim was investigated and authenticated by Jean-Marie Robine and Dr Michel Allard for the GRG. Her longevity claim was put into question in 2018, but the original assessing team stood by their judgement.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the longest living person, what was their name and when were they born?", "output": "Jeanne Calment is the longest living person to be verified. She was born in 1875 and lived to be 122 years old."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Richard Milhous Nixon was born on January 9, 1913, in what was then the township precinct of Yorba Linda, California, in a house built by his father, located on his family's lemon ranch\n Question: Was Richard Nixon born in California?", "output": "Richard Nixon was born in Yorba Linda, CA which is located in Orange County."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Karl Heinrich Marx FRSA (German: [ma\u0281ks]; 5 May 1818 \u2013 14 March 1883) was a German philosopher, economist, historian, sociologist, political theorist, journalist, critic of political economy, and socialist revolutionary. His best-known titles are the 1848 pamphlet The Communist Manifesto and the four-volume Das Kapital (1867\u20131883). Marx's political and philosophical thought had enormous influence on subsequent intellectual, economic, and political history. His name has been used as an adjective, a noun, and a school of social theory.\n\nBorn in Trier, Germany, Marx studied law and philosophy at the universities of Bonn and Berlin. He married German theatre critic and political activist Jenny von Westphalen in 1843. Due to his political publications, Marx became stateless and lived in exile with his wife and children in London for decades, where he continued to develop his thought in collaboration with German philosopher Friedrich Engels and publish his writings, researching in the British Museum Reading Room.\n\nMarx's critical theories about society, economics, and politics, collectively understood as Marxism, hold that human societies develop through class conflict. In the capitalist mode of production, this manifests itself in the conflict between the ruling classes (known as the bourgeoisie) that control the means of production and the working classes (known as the proletariat) that enable these means by selling their labour-power in return for wages. Employing a critical approach known as historical materialism, Marx predicted that capitalism produced internal tensions like previous socioeconomic systems and that these tensions would lead to its self-destruction and replacement by a new system known as the socialist mode of production. For Marx, class antagonisms under capitalism\u2014owing in part to its instability and crisis-prone nature\u2014would eventuate the working class's development of class consciousness, leading to their conquest of political power and eventually the establishment of a classless, communist society constituted by a free association of producers. Marx actively pressed for its implementation, arguing that the working class should carry out organised proletarian revolutionary action to topple capitalism and bring about socio-economic emancipation.\n\nMarx has been described as one of the most influential figures in human history, and his work has been both lauded and criticised. His work in economics laid the basis for some current theories about labour and its relation to capital. Many intellectuals, labour unions, artists, and political parties worldwide have been influenced by Marx's work, often modifying or adapting his ideas. Marx is typically cited as one of the principal architects of modern social science.\n Question: Given the reference text about Karl Marx, tell me when he died, what subjects he studied and at which universities he studied.", "output": "Karl Marx studied law and philosophy at the universities of Bonn and Berlin. He died on March 14 1883."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In a 100 gram amount, smooth peanut butter supplies 597 Calories and is composed of 51% fat, 22% protein, 22% carbohydrates (including 5% dietary fiber), and 1% water (table). Both crunchy and smooth peanut butter are sources of saturated and monounsaturated fats (mainly oleic acid) as 25% of total serving amount, and polyunsaturated fat (12% of total), primarily as linoleic acid).\n\nPeanut butter is a rich source (20% or more of the Daily Value, DV) of dietary fiber, vitamin E, pantothenic acid, folate, niacin, and vitamin B6 (table, USDA FoodData Central). Also high in content are the dietary minerals manganese, magnesium, phosphorus, zinc, copper, and sodium (added as salt during manufacturing). Peanut butter is a moderate source (10\u201319% DV) of thiamin, riboflavin, iron, and potassium (table).\n Question: Given the following paragraph about the nutrition profile of peanut butter, what minerals is peanut butter rich in?", "output": "Minerals that peanut butter is rich in include manganese, magnesium, phosphorus, zinc, copper, and sodium."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The scapholunate ligament is an intraarticular ligament binding the scaphoid and lunate bones of the wrist together. It is divided into three areas, dorsal, proximal and palmar, with the dorsal segment being the strongest part. It is the main stabilizer of the scaphoid. In contrast to the scapholunate ligament, the lunotriquetral ligament is more prominent on the palmar side.\n Question: Given this paragraph, what is the strongest part of the scapholunate ligament?", "output": "Given this text, the dorsal segment is the strongest part of the scapholunate ligament."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The administration of London is formed of two tiers: a citywide, strategic tier and a local tier. Citywide administration is coordinated by the Greater London Authority (GLA), while local administration is carried out by 33 smaller authorities. The GLA consists of two elected components: the mayor of London, who has executive powers, and the London Assembly, which scrutinises the mayor's decisions and can accept or reject the mayor's budget proposals each year.\n Question: Given this paragraph, what is an important function of the London Assembly?", "output": "A important function of the London Assembly is to scrutinise the mayor's decisions and accept or reject the mayor's budget proposals each year."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Telangana (/\u02cct\u025bl\u0259n\u02c8\u0261\u0251\u02d0n\u0259/ (listen); Telugu: [\u02c8tela\u014b\u0261a\u02d0\u0273a], Urdu: [\u02c8t\u026al\u0259\u014b\u0261\u0251\u02d0na] (listen)) is a state in India situated on the south-central stretch of the Indian peninsula on the high Deccan Plateau. It is the eleventh-largest state and the twelfth-most populated state in India with a geographical area of 112,077 km2 (43,273 sq mi) and 35,193,978 residents as per 2011 census. On 2 June 2014, the area was separated from the northwestern part of Andhra Pradesh as the newly formed state of Telangana, with Hyderabad as its capital. Its other major cities include Warangal, Nizamabad, Khammam, Karimnagar and Ramagundam. Telangana is bordered by the states of Maharashtra to the north, Chhattisgarh to the northeast, Karnataka to the west, and Andhra Pradesh to the east and south. The terrain of Telangana consists mostly of the Deccan Plateau with dense forests covering an area of 27,292 km2 (10,538 sq mi). As of 2019, the state of Telangana is divided into 33 districts.\n Question: When was Telangana created?", "output": "2014"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Long short-term memory (LSTM) is an artificial neural network used in the fields of artificial intelligence and deep learning. Unlike standard feedforward neural networks, LSTM has feedback connections. Such a recurrent neural network (RNN) can process not only single data points (such as images), but also entire sequences of data (such as speech or video). This characteristic makes LSTM networks ideal for processing and predicting data. For example, LSTM is applicable to tasks such as unsegmented, connected handwriting recognition, speech recognition, machine translation, speech activity detection, robot control, video games, and healthcare.\n Question: Given this paragraph, what is the definition of Long short-term memory ?", "output": "Long-short term memory is an artificial neural network used in deep learning that can process not only single data points (such as images), but also entire sequences of data (such as speech or video)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: ECharts Java is a lightweight but comprehensive library for Java developers to easily use JavaScript visualization library Apache ECharts. The simple chart mode facilitates users to write visualization fast and easily, empowered by the clean APIs provided by ECharts Java. The advanced mode helps create an Option object and its Json representation in chainable Java codes, which includes almost all the features defined in Apache ECharts. Now ECharts Java supports Apache ECharts version 5.x.\n\nFeatures\n\n- Simple, clean and organized APIs, supporting method chaining\n- Full coverage of Apache ECharts functionalities\n- Easily integrate with Web Frameworks\n- Flexible export format, including HTML and images\n- Complete and detailed documentation and examples\n Question: What is ECharts Java?", "output": "ECharts Java is a lightweight, comprehensive library for Java developers to easily integrate JavaScript visualization library\u00a0Apache ECharts into their web frameworks. The simple and clean APIs facilitate users to develop visualization components fast and easily. For complex and advanced usage, it allows developers to create an Option object and its Json representation. It is compatible with Apache ECharts version 5.x and provides almost full coverage of Apache ECharts functionalities. \n\nHere are some highlights of ECharts Java:\n\n- Simple, clean, organized APIs with method chaining\n- Full coverage of\u00a0Apache ECharts\u00a0functionalities\n- Easily integrate with Web Frameworks\n- Flexible export format, including HTML and images\n- Complete and detailed documentation and examples"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The General Data Protection Regulation (2016/679, \"GDPR\") is a Regulation in EU law on data protection and privacy in the EU and the European Economic Area (EEA). The GDPR is an important component of EU privacy law and of human rights law, in particular Article 8(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It also addresses the transfer of personal data outside the EU and EEA areas. The GDPR's primary aim is to enhance individuals' control and rights over their personal data and to simplify the regulatory environment for international business. Superseding the Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC, the regulation contains provisions and requirements related to the processing of personal data of individuals, formally called \"data subjects\", who are located in the EEA, and applies to any enterprise\u2014regardless of its location and the data subjects' citizenship or residence\u2014that is processing the personal information of individuals inside the EEA.\nThe GDPR was adopted on 14 April 2016 and became enforceable beginning 25 May 2018. As the GDPR is a regulation, not a directive, it is directly binding and applicable, and provides flexibility for certain aspects of the regulation to be adjusted by individual member states.\n\nAccording to the European Commission, \"Personal data is information that relates to an identified or identifiable individual. If you cannot directly identify an individual from that information, then you need to consider whether the individual is still identifiable. You should take into account the information you are processing together with all the means reasonably likely to be used by either you or any other person to identify that individual.\" The precise definitions of terms such as \"personal data\", \"processing\", \"data subject\", \"controller\", and \"processor\" are stated in Article 4 of the Regulation. \n\nPrinciples\nPersonal data may not be processed unless there is at least one legal basis to do so. Article 6 states the lawful purposes are:\n\n(a) If the data subject has given consent to the processing of his or her personal data;\n(b) To fulfill contractual obligations with a data subject, or for tasks at the request of a data subject who is in the process of entering into a contract;\n(c) To comply with a data controller's legal obligations;\n(d) To protect the vital interests of a data subject or another individual;\n(e) To perform a task in the public interest or in official authority;\n(f) For the legitimate interests of a data controller or a third party, unless these interests are overridden by interests of the data subject or her or his rights according to the Charter of Fundamental Rights (especially in the case of children).\n\nSecurity of personal data\nControllers and processors of personal data must put in place appropriate technical and organizational measures to implement the data protection principles. Business processes that handle personal data must be designed and built with consideration of the principles and provide safeguards to protect data (for example, using pseudonymization or full anonymization where appropriate). Data controllers must design information systems with privacy in mind. For instance, using the highest-possible privacy settings by default, so that the datasets are not publicly available by default and cannot be used to identify a subject. No personal data may be processed unless this processing is done under one of the six lawful bases specified by the regulation (consent, contract, public task, vital interest, legitimate interest or legal requirement). When the processing is based on consent the data subject has the right to revoke it at any time.\n\nArticle 33 states the data controller is under a legal obligation to notify the supervisory authority without undue delay unless the breach is unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of the individuals. There is a maximum of 72 hours after becoming aware of the data breach to make the report. Individuals have to be notified if a high risk of an adverse impact is determined (Article 34). In addition, the data processor will have to notify the controller without undue delay after becoming aware of a personal data breach (Article 33). However, the notice to data subjects is not required if the data controller has implemented appropriate technical and organisational protection measures that render the personal data unintelligible to any person who is not authorised to access it, such as encryption (Article 34).\n\nData protection officer\n\nArticle 37 requires appointment of a data protection officer. If processing is carried out by a public authority (except for courts or independent judicial authorities when acting in their judicial capacity), or if processing operations involve regular and systematic monitoring of data subjects on a large scale, or if processing on a large scale of special categories of data and personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences (Articles 9 and Article 10) a data protection officer (DPO)\u2014a person with expert knowledge of data protection law and practices\u2014must be designated to assist the controller or processor in monitoring their internal compliance with the Regulation.\n\nA designated DPO can be a current member of staff of a controller or processor, or the role can be outsourced to an external person or agency through a service contract. In any case, the processing body must make sure that there is no conflict of interest in other roles or interests that a DPO may hold. The contact details for the DPO must be published by the processing organisation (for example, in a privacy notice) and registered with the supervisory authority.\n\nThe DPO is similar to a compliance officer and is also expected to be proficient at managing IT processes, data security (including dealing with cyberattacks) and other critical business continuity issues associated with the holding and processing of personal and sensitive data. The skill set required stretches beyond understanding legal compliance with data protection laws and regulations. The DPO must maintain a living data inventory of all data collected and stored on behalf of the organization. More details on the function and the role of data protection officer were given on 13 December 2016 (revised 5 April 2017) in a guideline document.\n\nOrganisations based outside the EU must also appoint an EU-based person as a representative and point of contact for their GDPR obligations (Article 27). This is a distinct role from a DPO, although there is overlap in responsibilities that suggest that this role can also be held by the designated DPO.\n Question: Given a reference text about GDPR, tell me how GDPR helps to secure personal data.", "output": "General Data Protection Regulation provides guidelines on storing and processing personal data. Personal data is any information about an identified or identifiable person, also known as the data subject. Personal data includes information such as their:\n\nname\naddress\nID card/passport number\nincome\ncultural profile\nInternet Protocol (IP) address\ndata held by a hospital or doctor (which uniquely identifies a person for health purposes).\n\nSpecial categories of data\nYou may not process personal data about someone's:\n\nracial or ethnic origin\nsexual orientation\npolitical opinions\nreligious or philosophical beliefs\ntrade-union membership\ngenetic, biometric or health data except in specific cases (e.g. when you've been given explicit consent or when processing is needed for reasons of substantial public interest, on the basis of EU or national law)\npersonal data related to criminal convictions and offences unless this is authorised by EU or national law.\n\nWho processes the personal data?\nDuring processing, personal data can pass through various different companies or organisations. Within this cycle there are two main profiles that deal with processing personal data:\n\nThe data controller - decides the purpose and way in which personal data is processed.\nThe data processor - holds and processes data on behalf of a data controller.\nWho monitors how personal data is processed within a company?\nThe Data Protection Officer (DPO), who may have been designated by the company, is responsible for monitoring how personal data is processed and to inform and advise employees who process personal data about their obligations. The DPO also cooperates with the Data Protection Authority (DPA), serving as a contact point towards the DPA and individuals.\n\nProcessing data for another company\nA data controller can only use a data processor who offers sufficient guarantees, these should be included in a written contract between the parties involved. The contract must also contain a number of mandatory clauses, e.g. that the data processor will only process personal data when instructed to do so by the data controller.\n\nData transfer outside the EU\nWhen personal data is transferred outside the EU, the protection offered by the GDPR should travel with the data. This means that if you export data abroad, your company must ensure one of the following measures are adhered to:\n\nThe non-EU country's protections are deemed adequate by the EU.\nYour company takes the necessary measures to provide appropriate safeguards, such as including specific clauses in the agreed contract with the non-European importer of the personal data.\nYour company relies on specific grounds for the transfer (derogations) such as the consent of the individual.\nWhen is data processing allowed?\nEU data protection rules mean you should process data in a fair and lawful manner, for a specified and legitimate purpose and only process the data necessary to fulfil this purpose. You must ensure that you fulfil one of the following conditions to process the personal data; you:\n\nhave been given the consent of the individual concerned\nneed the personal data to fulfil a contractual obligation with the individual\nneed the personal data to satisfy a legal obligation\nneed the personal data to protect the vital interests of the individual\nprocess personal data to carry out the task in the interest of the public\nare acting in your company's legitimate interests, as long as the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual whose data are processed are not seriously impacted. If the person's rights override your company's interests, then you cannot process the personal data.\n\n\nAgreeing to data processing - consent\nRight to access and right to data portability\nRight to correct and right to object\nRight to erasure (right to be forgotten)\nAutomated decision-making and profiling\nData breaches \u2013 providing proper notification\nResponding to requests\nImpact assessments\nKeeping a record"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A tree well, also known as a spruce trap, is the space around a tree under its branches that does not get the same amount of snow as the surrounding open space. This creates a void or area of loose snow below the branches and around the trunk that is dangerous to any hikers, snowshoers, skiers, snowboarders, and snowmobilers who fall into them. If someone lands in such a well, often as a result of a fall, it can be too deep for them to climb up the surrounding loose snow before they are buried. Making the situation more dangerous, they often fall into the well head-first and as the result of an accident which could leave them injured or unconscious\n Question: Given this paragraph about a Tree well, why is it so dangerous for hikers, snowboarder, skiers and any snow practitioners", "output": "It is dangerous because it creates an area of loose snow below the branches and around the trunk, and when someone will fall into this area it can be too deep for this person to climb up before they are buried. Another dangerous aspect is the fact that they could fall head-first which could leave them injured or unconscious."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Originally, PayPal was a money-transfer service offered by a company called Confinity which was acquired by X.com in 1999. Later, X.com was renamed PayPal and purchased by eBay in 2002. The original PayPal employees had difficulty adjusting to eBay's more traditional corporate culture and within four years all but 12 of the first 50 employees had left. They remained connected as social and business acquaintances, and a number of them worked together to form new companies and venture firms in subsequent years. This group of PayPal alumni became so prolific that the term PayPal Mafia was coined. The term gained even wider exposure when a 2007 article in Fortune magazine used the phrase in its headline and featured a photo of former PayPal employees in gangster attire.\n Question: When did Confinity become eBay ?", "output": "Confinity was acquired by X.com in 1999 which was later renamed to PayPal. PayPal was acquired by eBay in 2002."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Google Sheets is a spreadsheet program included as part of the free, web-based Google Docs Editors suite offered by Google. Google Sheets is available as a web application, mobile app for: Android, iOS, Microsoft Windows, BlackBerry OS and as a desktop application on Google's ChromeOS. The app is compatible with Microsoft Excel file formats. The app allows users to create and edit files online while collaborating with other users in real-time. Edits are tracked by a user with a revision history presenting changes. An editor's position is highlighted with an editor-specific color and cursor and a permissions system regulates what users can do. Updates have introduced features using machine learning, including \"Explore\", offering answers based on natural language questions in a spreadsheet. This is one of the services provided by Google that also includes Google Docs, Google Slides, Google Drawings, Google Forms, Google Sites and Google Keep.\n Question: What is Google Sheets and how does it compatible with Microsoft Excel?", "output": "Google Sheets is a spreadsheet program included as part of the free, web-based Google Docs Editors suite offered by Google and is compatible with Microsoft Excel file formats (e.g., .XLS, .XLSX, .CSV, etc., . . .)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Food historian Lois Ellen Frank calls potatoes, tomatoes, corn, beans, squash, chili, cacao, and vanilla the \"magic eight\" ingredients that were found and used only in the Americas before 1492 and were taken via the Columbian Exchange back to the Old World, dramatically transforming the cuisine there. According to Frank,\nIf we deconstruct that these foods were inherently native, then that means that the Italians didn't have the tomato, the Irish didn't have the potato, half the British National Dish\u2014Fish and Chips\u2014didn't exist. The Russians didn't have the potato, nor did they have vodka from the potato. There were no chiles in any Asian cuisine anywhere in the world, nor were there any chiles in any East Indian cuisine dishes, including curries. And the French had no confection using either vanilla or chocolate. So the Old World was a completely different place.\n Question: Given this paragraph, what key crops were not available in Europe before the colonization of the New World?", "output": "Potatoes, tomatoes, corn, beans, squash, chili, cacao, and vanilla were not available in the Old World prior to the European discovery of the Americas"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the UK, the recommended daily values for magnesium are 300 mg for men and 270 mg for women. In the U.S. the Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) are 400 mg for men ages 19\u201330 and 420 mg for older; for women 310 mg for ages 19\u201330 and 320 mg for older.\n Question: Given this reference test, what is the daily recommended value of magnesium for men in the U.S.?", "output": "The daily recommended value of magnesium for men in the U.S. is 400 mg."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cabernet Sauvignon (French: [kab\u025b\u0281n\u025b sovi\u0272\u0254\u0303]) is one of the world's most widely recognized red wine grape varieties. It is grown in nearly every major wine producing country among a diverse spectrum of climates from Australia and British Columbia, Canada to Lebanon's Beqaa Valley. Cabernet Sauvignon became internationally recognized through its prominence in Bordeaux wines, where it is often blended with Merlot and Cabernet Franc. From France and Spain, the grape spread across Europe and to the New World where it found new homes in places like California's Santa Cruz Mountains, Paso Robles, Napa Valley, New Zealand's Hawke's Bay, South Africa's Stellenbosch region, Australia's Margaret River, McLaren Vale and Coonawarra regions, and Chile's Maipo Valley and Colchagua. For most of the 20th century, it was the world's most widely planted premium red wine grape until it was surpassed by Merlot in the 1990s. However, by 2015, Cabernet Sauvignon had once again become the most widely planted wine grape, with a total of 341,000 hectares (3,410 km2) under vine worldwide\n Question: What is Cabernet Sauvignon?", "output": "Cabernet Sauvignon (French: [kab\u025b\u0281n\u025b sovi\u0272\u0254\u0303]) is one of the world's most widely recognized red wine grape varieties."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: With sales of over 250 million records worldwide, Rihanna is the second-best-selling female music artist of all time. She has earned 14 number-ones and 32 top-ten singles in the US and 31 top-ten entries in the UK. Her accolades include nine Grammy Awards, 13 American Music Awards (including the Icon Award), 12 Billboard Music Awards, six Guinness World Records, the NAACP's President's Award, and an Academy Award nomination. Time named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2012 and 2018. Forbes ranked her among the top ten highest-paid celebrities in 2012 and 2014. As of 2023, she is the wealthiest female musician, with an estimated net worth of $1.4 billion.\n Question: Based on this paragraph about a singer, how many top-ten singles has Rihanna had in the United States?", "output": "32"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Seattle came in at No. 39 in the 2023 World's Best Cities Report, a comprehensive annual study by Resonance Consultancy. Seattle is a seaport city on the West Coast of the United States. The culture of Seattle is heavily defined by its significant musical history. Between 1918 and 1951, nearly 24 jazz nightclubs existed along Jackson Street, from the current Chinatown/International District to the Central District. The jazz scene nurtured the early careers of Ernestine Anderson, Ray Charles, Quincy Jones, and others. The city is also the origin of rock acts such as Foo Fighters, Heart, and Jimi Hendrix, as well as the grunge subgenre of rock and its pioneering bands Alice in Chains, Pearl Jam, Nirvana, and Soundgarden. The city itself is hilly, though not uniformly so. Like Rome, the city is said to lie on seven hills; the lists vary but typically include Capitol Hill, First Hill, West Seattle, Beacon Hill, Queen Anne, Magnolia, and the former Denny Hill. Due to its location in the Pacific Ring of Fire, Seattle is in a major earthquake zone. Temperature extremes are moderated by the adjacent Puget Sound, greater Pacific Ocean, and Lake Washington. Thus extreme heat waves are rare in the Seattle area, as are very cold temperatures (below about 15 \u00b0F (\u22129 \u00b0C)). The Seattle area is the cloudiest region of the United States, due in part to frequent storms and lows moving in from the adjacent Pacific Ocean. With many more \"rain days\" than other major American cities, Seattle has a well-earned reputation for frequent rain. Seattle's economy is driven by a mix of older industrial companies and \"new economy\" internet and technology companies, as well as service, design, and clean technology companies.\n Question: Is Seattle a nice place to live?", "output": "Yes"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the 2013 NFL season, the Seahawks continued their momentum from the previous season, finishing tied with the Denver Broncos for an NFL-best regular season record of 13\u20133, while earning the NFC's #1 playoff seed. Their 2013 campaign included big wins over the Carolina Panthers, New Orleans Saints, and the San Francisco 49ers. Six Seahawks players were named to the Pro Bowl: Quarterback Russell Wilson, center Max Unger, running back Marshawn Lynch, cornerback Richard Sherman, free safety Earl Thomas, and strong safety Kam Chancellor. However, none of them were able to play in the Pro Bowl, as the Seahawks defeated the New Orleans Saints 23\u201315 and the San Francisco 49ers 23\u201317, in the playoffs to advance to Super Bowl XLVIII against the Denver Broncos. On February 2, 2014, the Seahawks won the franchise's only Super Bowl Championship, defeating Denver 43\u20138. The Seahawks' defense performance in 2013 was acclaimed as one of the best in the Super Bowl era.\n\n\nMarshawn Lynch scored on a 67-yard touchdown run in the NFC Wild-Card Playoff Game against the New Orleans Saints in 2011.\nThe 2014 campaign saw the team lose some key pieces, including wide receiver Golden Tate to free agency and wide receiver Sidney Rice and defensive end Chris Clemons to retirement. Percy Harvin was also let go mid-season after several underachieving weeks and clashes with the rest of the locker room. Despite starting 3\u20133, they rallied to a 12\u20134 record, good enough once again for the #1 seed in the NFC Playoffs. After dispatching the Carolina Panthers handily in the Divisional Round 31\u201317, they faced the Green Bay Packers in the NFC Championship Game. Despite five turnovers and trailing 19\u20137 late in the contest, the Seahawks prevailed in overtime to reach Super Bowl XLIX against New England Patriots, but an ill-fated interception at the 1-yard line late in the championship game stymied a comeback attempt and thwarted the Seahawks' bid to be the first repeat Super Bowl champions since the Patriots had won Super Bowls XXXVIII and XXXIX.\n\nThe Seahawks returned to the playoffs in both 2015 and 2016, but despite winning the Wild Card game in both years they failed to win either Divisional round game on the road. The 2017 iteration of the team missed the playoffs for the first time in six years, as injuries to their core players coupled with disappointing acquisitions of running back Eddie Lacy and kicker Blair Walsh failed them in a competitive NFC. The team cut ties with most of the remaining players that had been part of their meteoric rise and turnover both their Offensive and Defensive coaching staff in 2018, and an influx of young talent helped propel the team to a 10\u20136 record and another playoff berth that ultimately ended in a loss in the Wild Card game. In October 2018, owner Paul Allen died after a prolonged fight with cancer. In 2019, the Seahawks put up their best record since their last trip to the Super Bowl at 11\u20135, but they still lost 3 out of their last 4 games and lost their chance to win the NFC West. A likely explanation for their sloppy finish is because many of their players were injured late in the season. After defeating the Philadelphia Eagles 17\u20139 in the Wild Card game, they lost to the Green Bay Packers in the Divisional round, failing another attempt at a second Super Bowl.\n\nThe 2020 season saw the Seahawks win their first five games, a franchise-best for a start to a season. Despite the Seahawks losing three of their next four games, the Seahawks finished strong, earning twelve victories for the first time since their Super Bowl season in 2014, and winning the division for the first time in four years. However, despite the 12\u20134 record and the division title, the Seahawks' season ended the following week against the Rams, who never trailed in a 30\u201320 victory. The Seahawks struggled and started the 2021 season 3\u20138. Russell Wilson had an injured finger missing 3 games and the Seahawks were shut out the first time in the Wilson era in Week 10 against the Packers. This was their worst first half of a season since 2009, under then-head coach Jim Mora. The Seahawks were eliminated from playoff contention on December 26 in a loss to the Chicago Bears, and they finished last in their division for the first time since 1996. With wins over the Lions and the Cardinals they finished 7\u201310.\n\nFollowing the 2021 season was an off-season of continuing change, punctuated with the trade of quarterback Russell Wilson to the team he and the Seahawks beat in Super Bowl XLVIII, the Denver Broncos, on March 6, 2022. The Broncos traded quarterback Drew Lock, tight end Noah Fant, defensive lineman Shelby Harris, two first-round picks (for that year's draft, No. 9 overall, and 2023's), two second-round picks (that year's, No. 40 overall, and 2023's) and a 2022 fifth-round selection to the Seahawks for Wilson and a 2022 fourth-round pick. Another hallmark franchise player from the Super Bowl-winning Seahawks, former All-Pro linebacker Bobby Wagner, was also cut by the team that same day, a move that saves them $16.6 million in cap space. The Seahawks also took on $26 million in dead money by trading Wilson; ESPN Stats & Information research revealed it to be the second-most dead money a team has ever incurred, trailing the $33.8 million the Philadelphia Eagles ate in their trade of Carson Wentz the previous year.\n Question: Given the reference text below, tell me when did the Seattle Seahawks win the Super Bowl, who they played against in the final game, and what was the final score.", "output": "The Seattle Seahawks won their first NFL championship in the 2013 NFL season. They played against the Denver Broncos winning with a score of 43-8."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mongolia (/m\u0252\u014b\u02c8\u0261o\u028ali\u0259/ (listen)) is a landlocked country in East Asia, bordered by Russia to the north and China to the south. It covers an area of 1,564,116 square kilometres (603,909 square miles), with a population of just 3.3 million, making it the world's most sparsely populated sovereign nation. Mongolia is the world's largest landlocked country that does not border a closed sea, and much of its area is covered by grassy steppe, with mountains to the north and west and the Gobi Desert to the south. Ulaanbaatar, the capital and largest city, is home to roughly half of the country's population.\n Question: Which major countries border Mongolia?", "output": "Russia and China"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Aaron Fenster is a medical physicist at the University of Western Ontario Robarts Research Institute in London, Ontario, Canada. He was named a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in 2013 for his contributions to medical imaging and three-dimensional ultrasound-guided interventions. He is also a fellow of the Canadian Academy of Health Sciences and co-program director of the Ontario Institute for Cancer Research Imaging Program. He holds Ph.D. from the University of Toronto and received further training at the Ontario Cancer Institute.\n Question: Give me a bulleted list of Aaron Fenster's accomplishments.", "output": "\"- Medical physicist at the University of Western Ontario Robarts Research Institute.\n- Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).\n- Fellow of the Canadian Academy of Health Sciences. \n- Co-program director of the Ontario Institute for Cancer Research Imaging Program. \n- Completed a Ph.D. from the University of Toronto.\""}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Charles Stuart (22 October 1660 \u2013 5 May 1661) was the first of four sons and eight children born from the marriage between the Duke of York (later King James II of England & VII of Scotland) and his first wife, Anne Hyde. He was styled Duke of Cambridge, but never formally created so, because he died so young.\n\nCharles was conceived seven months before his parents' official marriage and if royal advisors and Queen Henrietta Maria, the mother of James, had their way, he could have been declared illegitimate. King Charles II, James's older brother, approved of the marriage and the wedding between James and Anne was held on 3 September 1660 in London. Charles was born on 22 October and was baptised on 1 January 1661 at Worcester House. However, he died before reaching the age of one, after becoming ill with smallpox. He was buried in Westminster Abbey on 6 May 1661. Three of his younger brothers, likewise short-lived, were also called Duke of Cambridge: James, Edgar, and Charles.\n\nArms\nSee adjacent text\nCoat of arms as Duke of Cambridge\nDuring his short life, Charles bore a coat of arms, as a grandson of a British sovereign, consisting those of the kingdom, differenced by a label argent of five points ermine.\n Question: Who was Charles Stuart, Duke of Cambridge", "output": "Charles Stuart (22 October 1660 \u2013 5 May 1661) was the first of four sons and eight children born from the marriage between the Duke of York (later King James II of England & VII of Scotland) and his first wife, Anne Hyde. He was styled Duke of Cambridge, but never formally created so, because he died so young.\n\nCharles was conceived seven months before his parents' official marriage and if royal advisors and Queen Henrietta Maria, the mother of James, had their way, he could have been declared illegitimate. King Charles II, James's older brother, approved of the marriage and the wedding between James and Anne was held on 3 September 1660 in London. Charles was born on 22 October and was baptised on 1 January 1661 at Worcester House. However, he died before reaching the age of one, after becoming ill with smallpox. He was buried in Westminster Abbey on 6 May 1661. Three of his younger brothers, likewise short-lived, were also called Duke of Cambridge: James, Edgar, and Charles.\n\nDuring his short life, Charles bore a coat of arms, as a grandson of a British sovereign, consisting those of the kingdom, differenced by a label argent of five points ermine."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Berwick is a borough in Columbia County, Pennsylvania, United States. It is part of Northeastern Pennsylvania and is located 28 miles (45 km) southwest of Wilkes-Barre. As of the 2020 census, Berwick had a population of 10,355. It is one of the two principal communities of the Bloomsburg\u2013Berwick metropolitan area, which covers Columbia and Montour counties, and had a combined population of 85,562 at the 2010 census.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Berwick, what was its population during the most up to date census?", "output": "10,355"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The University of Oxford is a collegiate research university in Oxford, England. There is evidence of teaching as early as 1096, making it the oldest university in the English-speaking world and the world's second-oldest university in continuous operation. It grew rapidly from 1167 when Henry II banned English students from attending the University of Paris. After disputes between students and Oxford townsfolk in 1209, some academics fled north-east to Cambridge where they established what became the University of Cambridge. The two English ancient universities share many common features and are jointly referred to as Oxbridge.\n Question: Given the following paragraph, what university has evidence of teaching as early as 1096?", "output": "The University of Oxford"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Some Eucalyptus species have attracted attention from horticulturists, global development researchers, and environmentalists because of desirable traits such as being fast-growing sources of wood, producing oil that can be used for cleaning and as a natural insecticide, or an ability to be used to drain swamps and thereby reduce the risk of malaria. Eucalyptus oil finds many uses like in fuels, fragrances, insect repellence and antimicrobial activity. Eucalyptus trees show allelopathic effects; they release compounds which inhibit other plant species from growing nearby. Outside their natural ranges, eucalypts are both lauded for their beneficial economic impact on poor populations:\u200a22\u200a and criticised for being \"water-guzzling\" aliens, leading to controversy over their total impact.\n Question: Why do eucalyptus trees have such an excellent aroma?  Is there any other uses for Eucalyptus?", "output": "The oil from Eucalyptus trees provides several benefits with the most prevalent being the pleasant aroma.  As a tree that grows fast and has been used strategically to reduce the risk of malaria by draining swamps a little Eucalyptus goes a long way.  The oil produced by these trees are also useful in an antimicrobial activity and in some cases has been known to make the trees more flammable.  Outside of their native Australia they have been viewed as an invasive species."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Reginaldo de Fran\u00e7a Lopes (born 31 October 1969), known as Reginaldo Fran\u00e7a, is a Brazilian professional football manager and former player.\n\nA defensive midfielder, Fran\u00e7a played his entire career for teams in the Cear\u00e1 state, aside from a short period at Cascavel in 2004, and notably represented Ferrovi\u00e1rio in the 2002 S\u00e9rie C. He retired in 2006 with S\u00e3o Benedito, and subsequently became their manager in the following year. As a manager, he also remained in his native state, notably managing Maranguape for nearly four consecutive years.\n Question: Given a reference text about Reginaldo de Fran\u00e7a Lopes, tell me what sport and position he played and when he retired.", "output": "Reginaldo de Fran\u00e7a Lopes was a footballer who played defensive midfielder. He retired from playing football in 2006 and became a manager."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Michael J. Flynn views the first RISC system as the IBM 801 design, begun in 1975 by John Cocke and completed in 1980. The 801 developed out of an effort to build a 24-bit high-speed processor to use as the basis for a digital telephone switch. To reach their goal of switching 1 million calls per hour (300 per second) they calculated that the CPU required performance on the order of 12 million instructions per second (MIPS), compared to their fastest mainframe machine of the time, the 370/168, which performed at 3.5 MIPS.\n Question: Given this paragraph about computers, what is the first RISC system?", "output": "The first RISC system was the IBM 801, started in 1975 and completed in 1980."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Brazilian jiu-jitsu was initially developed in 1925 by Brazilian brothers Carlos, Oswaldo, Gast\u00e3o Jr., George, and H\u00e9lio Gracie, after Carlos was taught jiu-jitsu by a travelling Japanese judoka, Mitsuyo Maeda, who himself mastered his ground fighting while interacting with Taro Miyake (Tanabe student), Sadakazu Uyenishi (Handa, Tanabe) and Yukio Tani (Tenjin Shinyo-ryu) and catch wrestlers in Europe. Later on, the Gracie family developed their own self-defense system, and published Gracie Jiu-Jitsu.\n\nBJJ eventually came to be its own defined combat sport through the innovations, practices, and adaptation of Gracie jiu-jitsu and Judo, and became an essential martial art for modern MMA. Governing bodies such as the IBJJF work worldwide, and set the rules and standards to be held in sport BJJ competitions.\n\nBJJ revolves around the concept, taken from traditional Japanese j\u016bjutsu, that a smaller, weaker person can successfully defend themselves against a bigger, stronger, heavier opponent by using leverage and weight distribution, taking the fight to the ground and using a number of holds and submissions to defeat them. BJJ training can be used for sport grappling and self-defense situations. Sparring, commonly referred to as \"rolling\" within the BJJ community, and live drilling plays a major role in training and the practitioner's development. BJJ can also be used as a method of promoting physical fitness, building character, and as a way of life.\n Question: Given this reference text, tell me what the foundational BJJ concept was", "output": "BJJ focuses on the concept that smaller and weaker practitioners can defend against larger and bigger opponents by taking the fight to the ground. Once on the ground, a BJJ practitioner can use leverage and weight distribution to defeat their opponent."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Club Africain (Arabic: \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0627\u062f\u064a \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0641\u0631\u064a\u0642\u064a) is a Tunisian football club based in Tunis that competes in the Tunisian Championship. It fields several sports teams, including football, handball, basketball, swimming and volleyball. The football team was the first Tunisian club to win an international trophy, when they won the Maghreb Cup Winners Cup in 1971. Twenty years later, in 1991, Club Africain became the first Tunisian team to win the African Champions League.\n Question: What international trophy did the Club Africain football team won in 1971 ?", "output": "The Maghreb Cup Winners Cup"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Endless Nights in Aurora (Chinese: \u6975\u5149\u4e4b\u611b) is a 2014 Taiwanese romantic drama film directed by Lee Szu-yuan. It stars Rainie Yang and Chris Wang. It was released on December 19, 2014.\n\nRevolving around the romantic relationship of two generations, Alisha and her mother Xiao-feng, two parallel love stories are re-enacted across two and a half decades. With equally heated passion, the star-crossed lovers in different generations are faithfully attached to their experiences in love through promises, anticipation, losses, and forgiveness.\n Question: Was Endless Nights released in November or December?", "output": "December"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Around 4000 BCE, the Saharan climate started to become drier at an exceedingly fast pace. This climate change caused lakes and rivers to shrink significantly and caused increasing desertification. This, in turn, decreased the amount of land conducive to settlements and encouraged migrations of farming communities to the more tropical climate of West Africa. During the first millennium BCE, a reduction in wild grain populations related to changing climate conditions facilitated the expansion of farming communities and the rapid adoption of rice cultivation around the Niger River.\n Question: The reduction in wild grain populations lead to what type of crop being cultivated?", "output": "The reduction in wild grain populations lead to the rapid adoption of rice cultivation around the Niger River."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Game theory is the study of mathematical models of strategic interactions among rational agents. It has applications in all fields of social science, as well as in logic, systems science and computer science. Originally, it addressed two-person zero-sum games, in which each participant's gains or losses are exactly balanced by those of other participants. In the 21st century, game theory applies to a wide range of behavioral relations; it is now an umbrella term for the science of logical decision making in humans, animals, as well as computers.\n Question: What is game theory?", "output": "Game theory is a scientific study of mathematical models and strategies. It has wide applications in all aspects of social science, system, and computer science that include zero-sum games and behavioral relations. Currently Game Theory is an umbrella term for decision making in humans, animals, and computers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: World War I or the First World War (28 July 1914 \u2013 11 November 1918), often abbreviated as WWI, was one of the deadliest global conflicts in history. It was fought between two coalitions, the Allies (primarily France, the United Kingdom, Russia, Italy, Japan, and the United States) and the Central Powers (led by Germany, Austria-Hungary, and the Ottoman Empire). Fighting occurred throughout Europe, the Middle East, Africa, the Pacific, and parts of Asia. An estimated 9 million soldiers were killed in combat, plus another 23 million wounded, while 5 million civilians died as a result of military action, hunger, and disease. Millions more died as a result of genocide, while the 1918 Spanish flu pandemic was exacerbated by the movement of combatants during the war.\n Question: How many total soldiers sustained non-fatal injuries during WWI?", "output": "23 million"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A continuous seven day cycle that runs throughout history, paying no attention whatsoever to the phases of the moon and having a fixed day of rest, was most likely first practised in Judaism, dated to the 6th century BC at the latest.\n\nIn Ancient Rome (753 BC\u2013476 AD), every eight days there was a nundinae. It was a market day, during which children were exempted from school and agricultural workers stopped work in the field and came to the city to sell the produce of their labor or to practice religious rites.[citation needed]\n\nThe French Revolutionary Calendar (1793\u20131805) had ten-day weeks (called d\u00e9cades) and allowed d\u00e9cadi, one out of the ten days, as a leisure day. From 1929 to 1940, the Soviet Union utilized a calendar with five and six-day work weeks, with a rest day assigned to a worker either with a colour or number.\n\nIn cultures with a four-day workweek, the three Sabbaths derive from the culture's main religious tradition: Friday (Muslim), Saturday (Jewish, Adventist), and Sunday (Christian).\n\nThe present-day concept of the relatively longer 'week-end' first arose in the industrial north of Britain in the early 19th century and was originally a voluntary arrangement between factory owners and workers allowing Saturday afternoon off starting at 2 pm on the basis that staff would be available for work sober and refreshed on Monday morning. The Oxford English Dictionary traces the first use of the term weekend to the British magazine Notes and Queries in 1879.\n\nIn 1908, the first five-day workweek in the United States was instituted by a New England cotton mill so that Jewish workers would not have to work on the Sabbath from sundown Friday to sundown Saturday. In 1926, Henry Ford began shutting down his automotive factories for all of Saturday and Sunday, due to pressures stemming from the October Revolution,[citation needed] which witnessed the ruling class persecuted for not giving the laborers dignifying conditions. In 1929, the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America was the first union to demand and receive a five-day workweek. The rest of the United States slowly followed, but it was not until 1940, when a provision of the 1938 Fair Labor Standards Act mandating a maximum 40-hour workweek went into effect, that the two-day weekend was adopted nationwide.\n\nOver the succeeding decades, particularly in the 1940s to 1960s, an increasing number of countries adopted either a Friday\u2013Saturday or a Saturday\u2013Sunday weekend to harmonize with international markets. A series of workweek reforms in the mid-to-late 2000s and early 2010s brought much of the Arab World in synchronization with the majority of countries around the world, in terms of working hours, the length of the workweek, and the days of the weekend. The International Labour Organization (ILO) currently defines a workweek exceeding 48 hours as excessive. A 2007 study by the ILO found that at least 614.2 million people around the world were working excessive hours.\n Question: Given a reference text about the history of the workweek, what social forces precipitated the creation of a five-day workweek in the United States and when?", "output": "The creation of a five-day workweek in the United States came about as a result of organizing by and pressure from workers and labor groups in the first half of the 20th century, as they demanded dignified working conditions from their employers and the ruling class."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Internet protocol suite, commonly known as TCP/IP, is a framework for organizing the set of communication protocols used in the Internet and similar computer networks according to functional criteria. The foundational protocols in the suite are the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), the User Datagram Protocol (UDP), and the Internet Protocol (IP). Early versions of this networking model were known as the Department of Defense (DoD) model because the research and development were funded by the United States Department of Defense through DARPA.\n\nThe Internet protocol suite provides end-to-end data communication specifying how data should be packetized, addressed, transmitted, routed, and received. This functionality is organized into four abstraction layers, which classify all related protocols according to each protocol's scope of networking. An implementation of the layers for a particular application forms a protocol stack. From lowest to highest, the layers are the link layer, containing communication methods for data that remains within a single network segment (link); the internet layer, providing internetworking between independent networks; the transport layer, handling host-to-host communication; and the application layer, providing process-to-process data exchange for applications.\n\nThe technical standards underlying the Internet protocol suite and its constituent protocols are maintained by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). The Internet protocol suite predates the OSI model, a more comprehensive reference framework for general networking systems.\n Question: Give this paragraph about TCP/IP, what are the four abstraction laters?", "output": "From lowest to highest, the layers are:\n- link layer, containing communication methods for data that remains within a single network segment (link)\n- the internet layer, providing internetworking between independent networks; \n- the transport layer, handling host-to-host communication;\n- the application layer, providing process-to-process data exchange for applications."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sabapathy is a 1941 Indian Tamil-language comedy film directed by A. V. Meiyappan and A. T. Krishnaswamy, and produced by Meiyappan. An adaptation of Pammal Sambandha Mudaliar's farce play of the same name, the film stars T. R. Ramachandran, Kali N. Rathnam, C. T. Rajakantham and K. Sarangapani. It focuses on the antics of two dim-witted men named Sabapathy: a wealthy man and his servant. The film was released on 14 December 1941 and became a commercial success.\n Question: Given this paragraph, tell me the storyline of Sabapathy.", "output": "Sabapathy is a comedy film about the antics of a wealthy man and his servant."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Process engineering involves the utilization of multiple tools and methods. Depending on the exact nature of the system, processes need to be simulated and modeled using mathematics and computer science. Processes where phase change and phase equilibria are relevant require analysis using the principles and laws of thermodynamics to quantify changes in energy and efficiency. In contrast, processes that focus on the flow of material and energy as they approach equilibria are best analyzed using the disciplines of fluid mechanics and transport phenomena. Disciplines within the field of mechanics need to be applied in the presence of fluids or porous and dispersed media. Materials engineering principles also need to be applied, when relevant.\n\nManufacturing in the field of process engineering involves an implementation of process synthesis steps. Regardless of the exact tools required, process engineering is then formatted through the use of a process flow diagram (PFD) where material flow paths, storage equipment (such as tanks and silos), transformations (such as distillation columns, receiver/head tanks, mixing, separations, pumping, etc.) and flowrates are specified, as well as a list of all pipes and conveyors and their contents, material properties such as density, viscosity, particle-size distribution, flowrates, pressures, temperatures, and materials of construction for the piping and unit operations.\n Question: What is a PFD?", "output": "PFD is an abbreviation for process flow diagram.\n\nProcess flow diagrams specify material flow paths, storage equipment (such as tanks and silos), transformations (such as distillation columns, receiver/head tanks, mixing, separations, pumping, etc.), and flowrates. They also list all pipes and conveyors and their contents, material properties such as density, viscosity, particle-size distribution, flowrates, pressures, temperatures, and materials of construction for the piping and unit operations."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tigers have been of great importance in Chinese culture since the earliest surviving records of Chinese history, with the character \u864e appearing on the Shang-era oracle bones. In prehistoric China, the Siberian, South China, and Bengal tigers were common in the northeast, southeast, and southwest respectively and tigers figures prominently in myth, astrology, Chinese poetry, painting, and other fields. Most prominently, the tiger has long been regarded as a major symbol of masculine yang energy and the king of the animals. In modern China, it generally represents power, fearlessness, and wrath\n Question: Given this reference text that describes the importance of tigers in chinese culture, what do they symbolize in modern China and what types were common in the northeast?", "output": "Tigers symbolize power, fearlessness and wrath in modern China.  Bengal tigers were common in the northeast."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Onigiri (\u304a\u63e1\u308a or \u5fa1\u63e1\u308a), also known as omusubi (\u304a\u7d50\u3073), nigirimeshi (\u63e1\u308a\u98ef), or rice ball, is a Japanese food made from white rice formed into triangular or cylindrical shapes and often wrapped in nori. Traditionally, an onigiri is filled with pickled ume (umeboshi), salted salmon, katsuobushi, kombu, tarako, mentaiko, takanazuke (pickled takana, Japanese giant red mustard greens) or any other salty or sour ingredient as a natural preservative. Most Japanese convenience stores stock their onigiri with various fillings and flavors. There are even specialized shops which only sell onigiri to take out. Due to the popularity of this trend in Japan, onigiri has become a popular staple in Japanese restaurants worldwide.\n Question: What is an onigiri made of?", "output": "Onigiri is a Japanese food made from white rice formed into triangular or cylindrical shapes and often wrapped in nori (seaweed). Traditionally, an onigiri is filled with pickled ume (umeboshi), salted salmon, katsuobushi, kombu, tarako, mentaiko, takanazuke (pickled takana, Japanese giant red mustard greens) or any other salty or sour ingredient as a natural preservative."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The number 1729 is known as the Hardy\u2013Ramanujan number after a famous visit by Hardy to see Ramanujan at a hospital. In Hardy's words:\n\nI remember once going to see him when he was ill at Putney. I had ridden in taxi cab number 1729 and remarked that the number seemed to me rather a dull one, and that I hoped it was not an unfavorable omen. \"No\", he replied, \"it is a very interesting number; it is the smallest number expressible as the sum of two cubes in two different ways.\"\n\nImmediately before this anecdote, Hardy quoted Littlewood as saying, \"Every positive integer was one of [Ramanujan's] personal friends.\"\n\nThe two different ways are:\n\n1729\n=\n1\n3\n+\n12\n3\n=\n9\n3\n+\n10\n3\n.\n{\\displaystyle 1729=1^{3}+12^{3}=9^{3}+10^{3}.}\nGeneralisations of this idea have created the notion of \"taxicab numbers\".\n Question: What is special about the number 1729?", "output": "1729, known as the Hardy\u2013Ramanujan number, is the smallest integer that can be expressed as the sum of the cubes of two unique pairs of integers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ons Jabeur was born to Samira and Ridha Jabeur in Ksar Hellal, a small town in Tunisia. She grew up in the larger nearby coastal town of Sousse. Jabeur has two older brothers, Hatem and Marwen, and an older sister, Yasmine. Her mother played tennis recreationally and introduced her to the sport at the age of three. Jabeur trained under coach Nabil Mlika for ten years from ages four to thirteen, originally starting to work with him at a tennis promotion centre at her school. When she was ten years old, her club did not have their own tennis courts and she could only train on courts at nearby hotels. At twelve years old, Jabeur moved to the capital city of Tunis to train at the Lyc\u00e9e Sportif El Menzah, a national sport high school for the country's up-and-coming athletes, where she stayed for several years.\n\nShe also later trained in Belgium and France starting at the age of 16. Jabeur credits her parents for the sacrifices they made when she was growing up, saying, \"My parents sacrificed a lot of things \u2013 my mom used to drive me everywhere around Tunisia to go play the tournaments, and she encouraged me to go to a special school to study. That was a big sacrifice to see her little girl going for a dream that, honestly, wasn't 100% guaranteed. She believed in me and gave me the confidence to be there.\"\n Question: What sacrifices did Ons's parents make to help her tennis career?", "output": "Ons's mother used to drive Ons all around Tunisia to play tennis tournaments and encouraged Ons to go to a special school to study."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Missouri and North Arkansas (reporting mark M&NA) was a railroad in Missouri and Arkansas from 1906 to 1946.\n\nThe railroad began as the Eureka Springs Railway in 1883 as a line from the St. Louis\u2013San Francisco Railway in Seligman, MO, reaching the resort town of Eureka Springs, AR in 1883.\n Question: In which country did the M&NA railroad exist.", "output": "The M&NA was a railroad in Missouri and Arkansas, which made it part of the United States."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The reef manta ray (Mobula alfredi) is a species of ray in the family Mobulidae, one of the largest rays in the world. Among generally recognized species, it is the second-largest species of ray, only surpassed by the giant oceanic manta ray.\n\nThe species was described in 1868 by Gerard Krefft, the director of the Australian Museum. He named it M. alfredi in honor of Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh, the first member of the British royal family to visit Australia. It was originally described as part of the genus Manta but in 2017 was changed, along with the rest of the mantas, to be included as part of the genus Mobula.\n\nReef manta rays are typically 3 to 3.5 m (9.8 to 11.5 ft) in disc width, with a maximum size of about 5.5 m (18 ft). For a long time included in M. birostris, the status of the reef manta ray as a separate species was only confirmed in 2009. The reef manta ray is found widely in the tropical and subtropical Indo-Pacific, but with a few records from the tropical East Atlantic and none from the West Atlantic or East Pacific. Compared to the giant oceanic manta ray, the reef manta ray tends to be found in shallower, more coastal habitats, but local migrations are sometimes reported. Mobula birostris is similar in appearance to Mobula alfredi and the two species may be confused as their distribution overlaps. However, there are distinguishing features.\n Question: How big is Reef manta rays", "output": "Reef manta rays are typically 3 to 3.5 m (9.8 to 11.5 ft) in disc width, with a maximum size of about 5.5 m (18 ft)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Masters Tournament (usually referred to as simply The Masters, or the U.S. Masters outside North America) is one of the four major championships in professional golf. Scheduled for the first full week of April, the Masters is the first major of the year, and unlike the others, it is always held at the same location, Augusta National Golf Club, a private course in the city of Augusta, Georgia, in the southeastern United States.\n\nThe Masters was started by amateur champion Bobby Jones and investment banker Clifford Roberts. After his grand slam in 1930, Jones acquired the former plant nursery and co-designed Augusta National with course architect Alister MacKenzie. First played 89 years ago in 1934, the tournament is an official money event on the PGA Tour, the European Tour, and the Japan Golf Tour. The field of players is smaller than those of the other major championships because it is an invitational event, held by the Augusta National Golf Club.\n Question: Given the reference text about The Masters, where is the tournament played and what is the name of the golf course?", "output": "The Masters is played at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Luftwaffe was the aerial-warfare branch of the German Wehrmacht before and during World War II. Germany's military air arms during World War I, the Luftstreitkr\u00e4fte of the Imperial Army and the Marine-Fliegerabteilung of the Imperial Navy, had been disbanded in May 1920 in accordance with the terms of the 1919 Treaty of Versailles which banned Germany from having any air force.\n\nDuring the interwar period, German pilots were trained secretly in violation of the treaty at Lipetsk Air Base in the Soviet Union. With the rise of the Nazi Party and the repudiation of the Versailles Treaty, the Luftwaffe's existence was publicly acknowledged on 26 February 1935, just over two weeks before open defiance of the Versailles Treaty through German rearmament and conscription would be announced on 16 March. The Condor Legion, a Luftwaffe detachment sent to aid Nationalist forces in the Spanish Civil War, provided the force with a valuable testing ground for new tactics and aircraft. Partially as a result of this combat experience, the Luftwaffe had become one of the most sophisticated, technologically advanced, and battle-experienced air forces in the world when World War II broke out in September 1939. By the summer of 1939, the Luftwaffe had twenty-eight Geschwader (wings). The Luftwaffe also operated a paratrooper force known as the Fallschirmj\u00e4ger.\n\nThe Luftwaffe proved instrumental in the German victories across Poland and Western Europe in 1939 and 1940. During the Battle of Britain, however, despite inflicting severe damage to the RAF's infrastructure and, during the subsequent Blitz, devastating many British cities, the German air force failed to batter the beleaguered British into submission. From 1942, Allied bombing campaigns gradually destroyed the Luftwaffe's fighter arm. From late 1942, the Luftwaffe used its surplus ground support and other personnel to raise Luftwaffe Field Divisions. In addition to its service in the West, the Luftwaffe operated over the Soviet Union, North Africa and Southern Europe. Despite its belated use of advanced turbojet and rocket-propelled aircraft for the destruction of Allied bombers, the Luftwaffe was overwhelmed by the Allies' superior numbers and improved tactics, and a lack of trained pilots and aviation fuel. In January 1945, during the closing stages of the Battle of the Bulge, the Luftwaffe made a last-ditch effort to win air superiority, and met with failure. With rapidly dwindling supplies of petroleum, oil, and lubricants after this campaign, and as part of the entire combined Wehrmacht military forces as a whole, the Luftwaffe ceased to be an effective fighting force.\n\nAfter the defeat of Nazi Germany, the Luftwaffe was disbanded in 1946. During World War II, German pilots claimed roughly 70,000 aerial victories, while over 75,000 Luftwaffe aircraft were destroyed or significantly damaged. Of these, nearly 40,000 were lost entirely. The Luftwaffe had only two commanders-in-chief throughout its history: Hermann G\u00f6ring and later Generalfeldmarschall Robert Ritter von Greim for the last two weeks of the war.\n Question: Given the below reference text about Luftwaffe, tell me for how many years was this military organisation active officially in Germany?", "output": "The Luftwaffe was officially active for about 11 years - 1935 to 1946."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: LaFollette was born near Morristown, New Jersey in 1781. His father, Joseph, and grandfather, Jean, were Huguenots who had escaped the persecution in France, traveling first to Jersey and then to the colonies where they operated a small farm near the Wallkill River in northern New Jersey. Jean was killed during the French and Indian Wars. Joseph married Phoebe Gobel of Morristown, New Jersey, whose father's farm along with other neighboring farms in Jockey Hollow was used by George Washington and his troops during the winter of 1780. After serving with Count Casimir Pulaski during the Revolutionary War, Joseph and his family joined the pioneers who trekked westward through the Cumberland Gap.\n Question: Based on this paragraph, what was the name of Jesse LaFollette's mother?", "output": "Jesse LaFollette's mother was Phoebe Gobel, who was married to his father Joseph."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Western Iranian languages themselves are divided into two subgroups: Southwestern Iranian languages, of which Persian is the most widely spoken, and Northwestern Iranian languages, of which Kurdish and Balochi are the most widely spoken\n Question: Given this paragraph on the Persian language, which are the 2 sub groups of the Western Iranian language?", "output": "Southwestern and Northwestern Iranian language"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific tasks.\n\nProperties\nThough the term large language model has no formal definition, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more. LLMs are general purpose models which excel at a wide range of tasks, as opposed to being trained for one specific task (such as sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or mathematical reasoning). The skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable, seems to be a function of the amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design.\n\nThough trained on simple tasks along the lines of predicting the next word in a sentence, neural language models with sufficient training and parameter counts are found to capture much of the syntax and semantics of human language. In addition, large language models demonstrate considerable general knowledge about the world, and are able to \"memorize\" a great quantity of facts during training.\n\nHallucinations\nMain article: Hallucination (artificial intelligence)\nIn artificial intelligence in general, and in large language models in particular, a \"hallucination\" is a confident response that does not seem to be justified by the model's training data.\n\nEmergent abilities\n\nOn a number of natural language benchmarks involving tasks such as question answering, models perform no better than random chance until they reach a certain scale (in this case, measured by training computation), at which point their performance sharply increases. These are examples of emergent abilities.\nUnpredictable abilities that have been observed in large language models but that were not present in simpler models (and that were not explicitly designed into the model) are usually called \"emergent abilities\". Researchers note that such abilities \"cannot be predicted simply by extrapolating the performance of smaller models\". These abilities are discovered rather than programmed-in or designed, in some cases only after the LLM has been publicly deployed. Hundreds of emergent abilities have been described. Examples include multi-step arithmetic, taking college-level exams, identifying the intended meaning of a word, chain-of-thought prompting, decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet, unscrambling a word\u2019s letters, identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs.\n\nArchitecture and training\nLarge language models have most commonly used the transformer architecture, which, since 2018, has become the standard deep learning technique for sequential data (previously, recurrent architectures such as the LSTM were most common). LLMs are trained in an unsupervised manner on unannotated text. A left-to-right transformer is trained to maximize the probability assigned to the next word in the training data, given the previous context. Alternatively, an LLM may use a bidirectional transformer (as in the example of BERT), which assigns a probability distribution over words given access to both preceding and following context. In addition to the task of predicting the next word or \"filling in the blanks\", LLMs may be trained on auxiliary tasks which test their understanding of the data distribution such as Next Sentence Prediction (NSP), in which pairs of sentences are presented and the model must predict whether they appear side-by-side in the training corpus.\n\nThe earliest LLMs were trained on corpora having on the order of billions of words. The first model in OpenAI's GPT series was trained in 2018 on BookCorpus, consisting of 985 million words. In the same year, BERT was trained on a combination of BookCorpus and English Wikipedia, totalling 3.3 billion words. In the years since then, training corpora for LLMs have increased by orders of magnitude, reaching up to hundreds of billions or trillions of tokens.\n\nLLMs are computationally expensive to train. A 2020 study estimated the cost of training a 1.5 billion parameter model (1-2 orders of magnitude smaller than the state of the art at the time) at $1.6 million.\n\nA 2020 analysis found that neural language models' capability (as measured by training loss) increased smoothly in a power law relationship with number of parameters, quantity of training data, and computation used for training. These relationships were tested over a wide range of values (up to seven orders of magnitude) and no attenuation of the relationship was observed at the highest end of the range (including for network sizes up to trillions of parameters).\n\nApplication to downstream tasks\nBetween 2018 and 2020, the standard method for harnessing an LLM for a specific natural language processing (NLP) task was to fine tune the model with additional task-specific training. It has subsequently been found that more powerful LLMs such as GPT-3 can solve tasks without additional training via \"prompting\" techniques, in which the problem to be solved is presented to the model as a text prompt, possibly with some textual examples of similar problems and their solutions.\n\nFine-tuning\nMain article: Fine-tuning (machine learning)\nFine-tuning is the practice of modifying an existing pretrained language model by training it (in a supervised fashion) on a specific task (e.g. sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or part-of-speech tagging). It is a form of transfer learning. It generally involves the introduction of a new set of weights connecting the final layer of the language model to the output of the downstream task. The original weights of the language model may be \"frozen\", such that only the new layer of weights connecting them to the output are learned during training. Alternatively, the original weights may receive small updates (possibly with earlier layers frozen).\n\nPrompting\nSee also: Prompt engineering and Few-shot learning (natural language processing)\nIn the prompting paradigm, popularized by GPT-3, the problem to be solved is formulated via a text prompt, which the model must solve by providing a completion (via inference). In \"few-shot prompting\", the prompt includes a small number of examples of similar (problem, solution) pairs. For example, a sentiment analysis task of labelling the sentiment of a movie review could be prompted as follows:\n\nReview: This movie stinks.\nSentiment: negative\n\nReview: This movie is fantastic!\nSentiment:\n\nIf the model outputs \"positive\", then it has correctly solved the task. In zero-shot prompting, no solve examples are provided. An example of a zero-shot prompt for the same sentiment analysis task would be \"The sentiment associated with the movie review 'This movie is fantastic!' is\".\n\nFew-shot performance of LLMs has been shown to achieve competitive results on NLP tasks, sometimes surpassing prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Examples of such NLP tasks are translation, question answering, cloze tasks, unscrambling words, and using a novel word in a sentence. The creation and optimisation of such prompts is called prompt engineering.\n\nInstruction tuning\nInstruction tuning is a form of fine-tuning designed to facilitate more natural and accurate zero-shot prompting interactions. Given a text input, a pretrained language model will generate a completion which matches the distribution of text on which it was trained. A naive language model given the prompt \"Write an essay about the main themes of Hamlet.\" might provide a completion such as \"A late penalty of 10% per day will be applied to submissions received after March 17.\" In instruction tuning, the language model is trained on many examples of tasks formulated as natural language instructions, along with appropriate responses. Various techniques for instruction tuning have been applied in practice. OpenAI's InstructGPT protocol involves supervised fine-tuning on a dataset of human-generated (prompt, response) pairs, followed by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), in which a reward function was learned based on a dataset of human preferences. Another technique, \"self-instruct\", fine-tunes the language model on a training set of examples which are themselves generated by an LLM (bootstrapped from a small initial set of human-generated examples).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Large language models, what is Instruction tuning?", "output": "Instruction tuning is a form of fine-tuning designed to facilitate more natural and accurate zero-shot prompting interactions."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The British Bull Dog was a popular type of solid-frame pocket revolver introduced by Philip Webley & Son of Birmingham, England, in 1872, and subsequently copied by gunmakers in continental Europe and the United States. It featured a 2.5-inch (64 mm) barrel and was chambered for .442 Webley or .450 Adams cartridges, with a five-round cylinder. Webley produced smaller scaled .320 Revolver and .380 calibre versions later, but did not mark them with the British Bull Dog name.\n Question: Measured in feet, what was the length of the gun barrel produced by Philip Webley & Son of Birmingham discussed in the above passage?", "output": "0.208 feet"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A love hotel is a type of short-stay hotel found around the world operated primarily for the purpose of allowing guests privacy for sexual activities. The name originates from \"Hotel Love\" in Osaka, which was built in 1968 and had a rotating sign. Although love hotels exist all over the world, the term \"love hotel\" is often used to refer specifically to those located within Japan.\n Question: What is a \"love hotel\"?", "output": "A love hotel is a type of short-stay hotel found around the world operated primarily for the purpose of allowing guests privacy for sexual activities."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The University of Virginia (UVA) is a public research university in Charlottesville, Virginia. It was founded in 1819 by Thomas Jefferson. Set within the Academical Village, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, the university is referred to as a \"Public Ivy\" for offering an academic experience similar to that of an Ivy League university. It is known in part for certain rare characteristics among public universities such as its historic foundations, student-run honor code, and secret societies.\n Question: According to this paragraph, when was the university of virginia founded?", "output": "The University of Virginia was founded in 1819."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Konstantin Konstantinovich Sluchevsky (Russian: \u041a\u043e\u043d\u0441\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0442\u0438\u043d \u041a\u043e\u043d\u0441\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0442\u0438\u043d\u043e\u0432\u0438\u0447 \u0421\u043b\u0443\u0447\u0435\u0432\u0441\u043a\u0438\u0439), (1837\u20131904) was a Russian poet.\n\nSluchevsky was born in St. Peterburg into a Russian noble family. He graduated from the First Cadet Corps, served in the Imperial Russian Guard, then entered the Academy of the General Staff, but in 1861 he quit the military service and went abroad. For a number of years he studied in Paris, Berlin, and Heidelberg, where he got the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in 1865. On his return to Russia he worked for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and State Property. From 1891 to 1902 he was the Chief Editor of the journal Pravitelstvenny Vestnik (Government Bulletin). He was also a member of the Council of the Chief Printing Office and had a title of Hofmeister.\n Question: Given a reference text about Konstantin Konstantinovich Sluchevsky, tell me where he was born and where he studied.", "output": "Konstantin Konstantinovich Sluchevsky was born in St. Petersburg, Russia and studied in Paris, Berlin, and Heidelberg."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: English congregationalist preacher Rev. William Davis found some success evangelizing the miners and their families after establishing a church in Guston in 1892, the only one in the Red Mountain Mining District. The church had not only a bell but also a steam whistle to announce when services were commencing. Davis had earlier tried unsuccessfully to establish a church in Red Mountain Town. The day after the Guston church opened, the commercial district of Red Mountain Town was destroyed in a fire, with some local residents suggesting it was the result of \"divine intervention\". Between 1941 and 1945, the by-then abandoned Guston church had begun to tilt heavily, eventually collapsing.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the original church in Guston in 1892, what were the two ways that were used to announce the beginning of services?", "output": "The church used both a bell and a steam whistle to announce the start of services."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Multi-spectral camouflage is the use of counter-surveillance techniques to conceal objects from detection across several parts of the electromagnetic spectrum at the same time. While traditional military camouflage attempts to hide an object in the visible spectrum, multi-spectral camouflage also tries to simultaneously hide objects from detection methods such as infrared, radar, and millimetre-wave radar imaging.\n Question: Based on this article, what is a potential weakness of traditional military camouflage?", "output": "Traditional military camouflage only protects against tools which use the visual spectrum to detect objects, and so if a tool is based on infrared or radar the traditional camouflage doesn't offer any protection."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tulip mania (Dutch: tulpenmanie) was a period during the Dutch Golden Age when contract prices for some bulbs of the recently introduced and fashionable tulip reached extraordinarily high levels. The major acceleration started in 1634 and then dramatically collapsed in February 1637. It is generally considered to have been the first recorded speculative bubble or asset bubble in history. In many ways, the tulip mania was more of a then-unknown socio-economic phenomenon than a significant economic crisis. It had no critical influence on the prosperity of the Dutch Republic, which was one of the world's leading economic and financial powers in the 17th century, with the highest per capita income in the world from about 1600 to about 1720. The term \"tulip mania\" is now often used metaphorically to refer to any large economic bubble when asset prices deviate from intrinsic values.\n Question: What does the term \"tulip mania\" mean?", "output": "The term \"tulip mania\" is now often used metaphorically to refer to any large economic bubble when asset prices deviate from intrinsic values."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A skipping rope or jump rope is a tool used in the sport of skipping/jump rope where one or more participants jump over a rope swung so that it passes under their feet and over their heads. There are multiple subsets of skipping/jump rope, including single freestyle, single speed, pairs, three-person speed (Double Dutch), and three-person freestyle (Double Dutch freestyle).\n\nRope skipping is commonly performed as an exercise or recreational activity, and there are also several major organizations that support jump rope as a competitive sport. Often separated by sex and age, events include hundreds of competitive teams all around the world. In the US, schools rarely have jump rope teams, and few states have sanctioned official events at the elementary school level. In freestyle events, jumpers use a variety of basic and advanced techniques in a routine of one minute, which is judged by a head judge, content judges, and performance judges. In speed events, a jumper alternates their feet with the rope going around the jumper every time one of their feet hits the ground for 30 seconds, one minute, or three minutes. The jumper is judged on the number of times the right foot touches the ground in those times.\n Question: How to skip rope?", "output": "A skipping rope is a fun form of exercise that is enjoyed by children and adults. \nWhile holding on to both ends of the rope, allow the middle of rope to rest on the ground in front of your feet, step over the rope so the rope is now behind your feet. \nSimultaneously, swing both arms over your head in a full swing so the rope is follows the motion of your arms and just before the rope reached the front of your feet, hop with both feet, avoiding the rope and continue the rhythm repeatedly."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Omar ibn Said was a real person, born and raised in Futa Toro, an Islamic state located in the part of West Africa that is now Senegal. His family was wealthy and he was highly educated as a Muslim scholar. He was captured by slavers in 1807 at the age of 37 and was taken to America to be sold in the Charleston slave market. Initially purchased by a harsh master, he escaped after two years and traveled to Fayetteville, North Carolina. There he was captured and jailed, but ultimately sold to planter James Owen. Owen was impressed by ibn Said's education, since very few slaves even knew how to read and write. Owen attempted to convert him to Christianity and provided him with a Bible and other books. He also urged him to write his memoirs, which he did in 1831. He wrote at least thirteen other Arabic documents, mostly on history and theology. Ibn Said lived until his mid-90s and died in 1864, still enslaved.\n Question: Given the following paragraph, where was Omar ibn Said born?", "output": "Omar ibn Said was born and raised in Futa Toro, an Islamic state located in the part of West Africa that is now Senegal."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jerry Garcia was born August 1, 1942, in San Francisco, California. His father was Jose Ramon Garcia, a Spanish immigrant. His mother, Ruth Marie Clifford, named him after her favorite composer, Jerome Kern. His father was a jazz musician who bought a bar. As a child Garcia took piano lessons. When he was four he lost part of a finger chopping wood. A year later his father drowned. When his mother took over the bar, Garcia went to live with his grandparents. They introduced him to the Grand Ole Opry. This along with his brother's collection of Chuck Berry records gave him an interest in country music. In 1953 his mother remarried and Garcia moved back with her. Garcia attended several different schools in and around San Francisco. But he had little interest in school until 1957 when he attended the California School of Fine Arts (now the San Francisco Art Institute). At age 15 his mother gave him a guitar. In high school he played in several bands. At age 17 he quit school. He joined the Army in 1960 but was given a general discharge a few months later.\nhttps://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jerry_Garcia\n Question: Based on this paragraph from Wikipedia, where was Jerry Garcia born, how many fingers did he have, and where did he attend college?", "output": "Based on this paragraph, Jerry Garcia was born in San Francisco, had nine fingers and he quit school at age 17 before attending college."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: South Willington's industrial history began in 1840, when Origen Hall and two partners founded the Willington Thread Company. Hall and his brother Gardner founded a second company in 1848 for the production of cotton wadding and batting. After several failed business ventures, Gardiner Hall founded the Hall Thread Company in 1860, building what is now the oldest surviving industrial building in the village. This venture also failed due to a lack of cotton occasioned by the American Civil War, but Hall restarted the business in 1867. This business flourished, operating at the site until 1954. The Halls practiced a paternalistic form of management and care of the mill workers, building a school and church, as well as housing for their workers. The company's success was instrumental in the village's growth during the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n Question: Based on this paragraph, what industry did Gardiner Hall create a business in and how was it impacted by the Civil War?", "output": "Gardiner Hall was in the textile business and ran the Hall Thread Company. His business was impacted by the Civil War due to a cotton shortage, but he restarted the business following the Civil War."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Nicholas Theodore is an American neurosurgeon and researcher at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. He is known for his work in spinal trauma, minimally invasive surgery, robotics, and personalized medicine. He is Director of the Neurosurgical Spine Program at Johns Hopkins and Co-Director of the Carnegie Center for Surgical Innovation at Johns Hopkins.\n\nDr. Theodore graduated from Cornell University, where he was the recipient of a Cornell Tradition Academic Fellowship. He attended medical school at Georgetown University, where he graduated with honors. After completing his internship at Bethesda Naval Hospital, Dr. Theodore served as a Senior General Medical Officer with the United States Marine Corps in Okinawa, Japan.\n\nDr. Theodore completed his neurosurgical residency and a fellowship in spinal surgery at the Barrow Neurological Institute. After completing his residency in 2001, he served as Chief of the Division of Neurosurgery at Naval Medical Center San Diego, overseeing the largest neurosurgery complement in the Navy.\n\nIn 2003, Dr. Theodore joined the faculty at the Barrow Neurological Institute, and assumed the position of Director of Neurotrauma. In 2004 he was appointed Associate Director of the Neurosurgery Residency Program at Barrow. The Neurosurgery Residency Program at Barrow is the largest in the United States, training four residents per academic year, for a total of 28 residents. In 2009 he became the Chief of the Spine Section at the Barrow Neurological Institute and was appointed the Volker K.H. Sonntag Chair in 2015. In 2016 he became the second Donlin M. Long Professor of Neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins Hospital. Dr. Theodore also holds professorships in Orthopedics and Biomedical Engineering at Johns Hopkins. He is also actively involved in the area of preventative medicine within neurosurgery. He has been associated with the ThinkFirst Foundation for several years, having served as the foundation\u2019s Medical Director and President. In 2017, Dr. Theodore was appointed to the National Football League\u2019s Head, Neck and Spine Committee, of which he became Chairman in 2018. In 2020, Michael J. Fox revealed in his memoir that Dr. Theodore performed a risky but successful surgery on him to remove an ependymoma in Fox\u2019s spinal cord.\n Question: Given a reference text about Nicholas Theodore, tell me where he went to medical school and  what he is known for.", "output": "Nicholas Theodore went to medical school at Georgetown University and is known for his work in spinal trauma, robotics, minimally invasive surgery, and personalized medicine."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: London is the capital and largest city of England and the United Kingdom, with a population of just under 9 million. It stands on the River Thames in south-east England at the head of a 50-mile (80 km) estuary down to the North Sea, and has been a major settlement for two millennia. The City of London, its ancient core and financial centre, was founded by the Romans as Londinium and retains its medieval boundaries.[note 1] The City of Westminster, to the west of the City of London, has for centuries hosted the national government and parliament. Since the 19th century, the name \"London\" has also referred to the metropolis around this core, historically split between the counties of Middlesex, Essex, Surrey, Kent, and Hertfordshire, which since 1965 has largely comprised Greater London, which is governed by 33 local authorities and the Greater London Authority.[note 2]\n Question: What is the largest city in the United Kingdom?", "output": "London is the largest and capital city of the United Kingdom."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: David Oliver Siegmund (born November 15, 1941) is an American statistician who has worked extensively on sequential analysis.\n\nBiography\nSiegmund grew up in Webster Groves, Missouri. He received his baccalaureate degree, in mathematics, from Southern Methodist University in 1963, and a doctorate in statistics from Columbia University in 1966. His Ph.D. advisor was Herbert Robbins. After being an assistant and then a full professor at Columbia, he went to Stanford University in 1976, where he is currently a professor of statistics. He has served twice as the chair of Stanford's statistics department. He has also held visiting positions at Hebrew University of Jerusalem, the University of Zurich, the University of Oxford, and the University of Cambridge.\n Question: Who is David Oliver Siegmund", "output": "David Oliver Siegmund (born November 15, 1941) is an American statistician who has worked extensively on sequential analysis.\n\nSiegmund grew up in Webster Groves, Missouri. He received his baccalaureate degree, in mathematics, from Southern Methodist University in 1963, and a doctorate in statistics from Columbia University in 1966. His Ph.D. advisor was Herbert Robbins. After being an assistant and then a full professor at Columbia, he went to Stanford University in 1976, where he is currently a professor of statistics. \n\nHe has served twice as the chair of Stanford's statistics department. He has also held visiting positions at Hebrew University of Jerusalem, the University of Zurich, the University of Oxford, and the University of Cambridge."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Elson joined the Hilltoppers staff as a defensive backs coach in 1996. He served as defensive coordinator for the 2001 and 2002 season before he was promoted to head coach. The rise to college football's highest level was difficult for the program, and Hilltoppers went 2-20 in Elson's final two seasons.\n\nOn November 9, 2009 Elson was fired by the university, finishing out the 2009 season. WKU alumnus and Stanford running backs coach Willie Taggart replaced him.\n\nIn March 2010, Indiana University head football coach Bill Lynch announced that Elson will be a defensive quality control coach. Coach Lynch noted this would mainly be an administrative role, but that he would be involved in coaching decisions. The Hoosiers made their first road trip of the year to play Elson's former team, the WKU Hilltoppers in Bowling Green, Kentucky.\n\nElson spent the 2011 football season as defensive coordinator for KHSAA state finalist Franklin-Simpson High School in Franklin, Kentucky.\n\nOn January 4, 2012, Elson was announced as the defensive coordinator at New Mexico State University.\n\nOn January 13, 2013, Elson was announced as the new secondary coach for the Southern Illinois University Carbondale, where he was a graduate assistant from 94 to 95. On January 20, 2016, after two years at Southern Illinois, Elson accepted the position as defensive coordinator at Western Illinois under new head coach Charlie Fisher.\n Question: What was the first road trip after Elson joined Indiana University?", "output": "The roadtrip was to play the WKU Hilltoppers in Bowling Green, Kentucky"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As one adjunct to data, the IMDb offers a rating scale that allows users to rate films on a scale of one to ten.\n\nIMDb indicates that submitted ratings are filtered and weighted in various ways to produce a weighted mean that is displayed for each film, series, and so on. It states that filters are used to avoid ballot stuffing; the method is not described in detail to avoid attempts to circumvent it. In fact, it sometimes produces an extreme difference between the weighted average and the arithmetic mean.\n Question: Given a reference text about IMDB, tell me how it rates movies.", "output": "IMDB allows users to submit their reviews and ratings.  As the most extensive internet movie database and the 54th most visited website across the planet, the scale of reviews and ratings collected for movies is massive.  IMDB uses various mathematical calculations to determine the rating of movies.  Many users decide whether to spend time and money on a film solely on ratings from IMDB.  Because of IMDB's scale and impact, it is now a subsidiary of Amazon."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Gusii language (also known as Ekegusii) is a Bantu language spoken in Kisii and Nyamira counties in Nyanza Kenya, whose headquarters is Kisii Town, (between the Kavirondo Gulf of Lake Victoria and the border with Tanzania). It is spoken natively by 2.2 million people (as of 2009), mostly among the Abagusii. Ekegusii has only two dialects: The Rogoro and Maate dialects. Phonologically they differ in the articulation of /t/. Most of the variations existing between the two dialects are lexical. The two dialects can refer to the same object or thing using different terms. Example Cat. While one dialect calls a cat ekemoni, the other calls it ekebusi. As well, the rogoro dialect calls sandals Chidiripasi while the maate dialect calls it chitaratara. Many more lexical differences manifest in the language. Maate Dialect is spoken in Tabaka and Bogirango. Most of the other regions use the Rogoro Dialect, which is also the standard dialect\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Gusii language, what do they call sandals in Tabaka Kenya?", "output": "Chitaratara is what they call scandals in Tabaka, Kenya, where the Maate dialect is spoken."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: True Corporation Public Company Limited (TRUE) (Formerly: True Corporation Public Company Limited and Total Access Communication Public Company Limited) is a communications conglomerate in Thailand. It is a joint venture between Charoen Pokphand Group and Telenor, formed by the merger between the original True Corporation and DTAC in the form of equal partnership to create a new telecommunications company that can fully meet the needs of the digital age. True controls Thailand's largest cable TV provider, TrueVisions, Thailand's largest internet service provider True Online,[citation needed] Thailand's largest mobile operators, TrueMove H and DTAC TriNet, which is second and third only to AIS. and entertainment media including television, internet, online games, and mobile phones under the True Digital brand. As of August 2014, True, along with True Telecommunications Growth Infrastructure Fund, had a combined market capitalization of US$10 billion.[citation needed] TrueMove is also a partner of Vodafone Group. Charoen Pokphand Group and Telenor hold equal ownership of 30% of True's shares as of March 2023. It operates fixed-line (as a concessionaire of NT (formerly known as TOT)), wireless, cable TV, IPTV and broadband services.\n Question: Given a reference text about True Corporation Public Company Limited, tell me what country it's in and how it was formed.", "output": "True Corporation Public Company Limited is located in Thailand and was formed by the original True Corporation merging with DTAC."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Free climbing has been called \"rock climbing's most commonly mistaken term\", with problems including:\n\nIncorrectly assuming that \"free climbing\" always means solo climbing, i.e. that you must always be alone and without any partner. Free climbing in traditional climbing and sport climbing uses a supporting belayer.\nIncorrectly assuming that \"free climbing\" always means free soloing, i.e. that you must never use any climbing protection equipment. Free climbing in traditional climbing and sport climbing uses climbing protection (but not to aid progression).\nIncorrectly assuming that \"free climbing\" always means onsighting or flashing, i.e. that you must always climb the route first try. Free climbing in traditional climbing and sport climbing also uses the redpoint as a definition of a first free ascent.\n Question: If it's called \"free\" climbing, why do climbers use gear to climb?", "output": "Free climbing refers to a form of rock climbing in which the climber ascends without the use of gear to aid progression. It is a common misunderstanding that free climbing means climbing with no protective gear. Both sport and traditional climbing make use of protective gear to prevent injury and death, and are both considered free climbing. This is in contrast to free solo climbing, another form of free climbing in which the climber uses no protective gear."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sweet Tree Holdings is a Vermont, United States, company that produces maple products from a sugarbush and processing facility in Island Pond.\n Question: Where does this company produce its products?", "output": "Island Pond, Vermont"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: 1947: Two plane crashes in a 24-hour period, one with fatalities. Two people were killed as the result of a mid-air collision between two planes over the airfield. The accident occurred when William Gleason Sauerwein of Falls Church took off from the field in an Aeronca Champion at the same time that F.H. Kirchman, 48, of Vienna, Virginia, was attempting to land while flying a Stinson 105. Both Kirchman and his passenger, Agnes Louise Brady, 47, of Arlington, Virginia, were killed in the accident. Sauerwein was taken to Arlington County hospital with head injuries and a broken leg. Witnesses said that the accident occurred at 7pm when the Stinson cut into the tail of the Aeronca while the planes were approximately 75 feet off the ground. The next day, a second crash occurred when a Funk cabin airplane lost power shortly after takeoff. The pilot, Margaret Vaughn, of Washington, D.C., suffered severe head and leg injuries when the plane crashed into a wooded area about two miles west of the airport, near Gallows Road in Fairfax County. Vaughn was an experienced pilot and was a Link trainer instructor for the Civil Aeronautics Authority. The next day, the Civil Aeronautics Board announced they were conducting a \"full inquiry\" into the cause of the two crashes. The investigators were specifically concerned with the quality of the gasoline being dispensed at the airport and took samples from Vaughn's aircraft at the scene of the crash.\n Question: Who was injured or killed and in what ways in the accidents?", "output": "F.H. Kirchman and his passenger Agnes Louise Brady was also killed. William Gleason Sauerwein had a broken leg and head injuries. Margaret Vaughn had severe head and leg injuries."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The human body contains from 55% to 78% water, depending on body size.[user-generated source?] To function properly, the body requires between one and seven liters (0.22 and 1.54 imp gal; 0.26 and 1.85 U.S. gal)[citation needed] of water per day to avoid dehydration; the precise amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is ingested through foods or beverages other than drinking straight water. It is not clear how much water intake is needed by healthy people, though the British Dietetic Association advises that 2.5 liters of total water daily is the minimum to maintain proper hydration, including 1.8 liters (6 to 7 glasses) obtained directly from beverages. Medical literature favors a lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for an average male, excluding extra requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather.\nHealthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink far more water than necessary while exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that \"a person should consume eight glasses of water per day\" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 U.S. fl oz) at mealtime, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation.\n Question: Based on the following paragraph on drinking water, is there a risk of drinking too much water during exercising?", "output": "Yes, since exercise induced stress can reduce the volume of water that the kidneys can excrete, drinking too much water during exercise can result in water intoxication which can be fatal."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Skydiving includes free falling (usually from an airplane) through the air prior to opening a parachute. Typically skydives are carried out from around 4,000m (or 12,500ft) offering 40 to 50 seconds of freefall time. Longer free fall times can be achieved by exiting an aircraft at altitudes much higher than 4,000m, but very high jumps require pressurized air within the aircraft, and bottled oxygen for the diver.\n Question: Given this paragraph about skydiving, give me the average time skydiver spends in freefall.", "output": "Typically skydives are carried out from around 4,000m (or 12,500ft) offering 40 to 50 seconds of freefall time."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the UK, the recommended daily values for magnesium are 300 mg for men and 270 mg for women. In the U.S. the Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) are 400 mg for men ages 19\u201330 and 420 mg for older; for women 310 mg for ages 19\u201330 and 320 mg for older.\n Question: Given this reference test, what is the daily recommended amount of magnesium for women in the U.S.?", "output": "The daily recommended amount of magnesium for women in the U.S. is 310 mg for ages 19-30 and 320 mg for older."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1910, the village had 544, for the most part, Hungarian inhabitants. At the 2001 Census the recorded population of the village was 3804 while an end-2008 estimate by the Statistical Office had the village's population as 3794. As of 2001, 92.53% of its population were Hungarians while 6.07% were Slovaks. Roman Catholicism is the majority religion of the village, its adherents numbering 60.52% of the total population.\n Question: What percent of the population were Hungarian?", "output": "In 2001, 92.53% of its population were Hungarians."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Vaughan bought many Stratocasters and gave some away as gifts. A sunburst Diplomat Strat-style guitar was purchased by Vaughan and given to his girlfriend Janna Lapidus to learn to play on. Vaughan used a custom set of uncommonly heavy strings, gauges .013, .015, .019, .028, .038, .058, and tuned a half-step below standard tuning. With these heavy string sizes, it was not uncommon for him to separate his fingernail because of his quick movement along the strings. The owner of an Austin club recalled Vaughan coming into the office between sets to borrow super glue, which he used to keep a fingernail split from widening while he continued to play. The super glue was suggested by Rene Martinez, who was Stevie's guitar technician. Martinez eventually convinced Stevie to change to slightly lighter strings. He preferred a guitar neck with an asymmetrical profile (thicker at the top), which was more comfortable for his thumb-over style of playing. Heavy use of the vibrato bar necessitated frequent replacements; Vaughan often had his roadie, Byron Barr, obtain custom stainless steel bars made by Barr's father. As for his usage of plectrums, Vaughan preferred Fender medium gauge guitar picks, using one of the rounder shoulders of the pick rather than the pointed tip to pluck and strum the strings.\n Question: What kind of guitar pick did Stevie Ray Vaughan prefer?", "output": "SRV is known to have used Fender's medium gauge picks, but with an interesting quirk - he preferred the rounder edge over the pointy tip, which most players use."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Chi Kraeng River is a river in Cambodia. It is a major tributary of the Tonl\u00e9 Sap. The name means \"great ancestor\" in Khmer.\n Question: Is Chi Kraeng River in South America, Southeast Asia, or Australia?", "output": "Southeast Asia"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mariano S\u00e1nchez Mart\u00ednez (born 28 January 1978) is a Spanish former professional footballer who played as a defensive midfielder.\n\nHe appeared in 108 Segunda Divisi\u00f3n games over three seasons, scoring two goals for Cartagena.\n\nClub career\nBorn in San Pedro del Pinatar, Region of Murcia, S\u00e1nchez did not reach the Segunda Divisi\u00f3n B until he was 26, in 2004, arriving at CD Alcoyano from amateurs AD Mar Menor-San Javier. In the following year he moved to another club at that level, FC Cartagena, helping it promote to Segunda Divisi\u00f3n in his fourth season.\n\nS\u00e1nchez made his debut in the competition on 29 August 2009 at the age of 31 years and seven months, playing the full 90 minutes in a 1\u20130 away win against Girona FC. He scored his first league goal on 22 May 2010 in the 3\u20135 home loss to Levante UD, and never appeared in less than 34 league matches during his three seasons in that tier, suffering relegation in his last and renewing his contract for a further two years in June 2012.\n\nOn 14 May 2014, the 36-year-old S\u00e1nchez announced he would retire at the end of the campaign while hoping to help his team promote, which eventually did not befell.\n\nPersonal life\nS\u00e1nchez rejected an offer to play youth football for Real Murcia when he was 18, after deciding to move to Madrid to study architecture. Not being able to enter Real Madrid's youth system, he chose to retire from football.\n\nAfter his playing days, S\u00e1nchez continued to work as an architect. Still as an active player, he was the figurehead behind the creation of the sports complex Pinatar Arena, in his hometown.\n Question: Who is Mariano S\u00e1nchez?", "output": "Mariano S\u00e1nchez Mart\u00ednez, also known as Mariano S\u00e1nchez is a Spanish former professional footballer who played as a defensive midfielder."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Goede Vrijdag is de vrijdag voor Pasen. Op deze dag herdenken christenen de kruisiging en dood van Jezus. Jezus werd volgens de Bijbel veroordeeld tot de kruisdood door de Romeinse stadhouder Pontius Pilatus, op aandrang van het sanhedrin. Deze straf werd voltrokken op de heuvel Golgotha nabij de stad Jeruzalem. Goede Vrijdag volgt op Witte Donderdag en gaat vooraf aan Stille Zaterdag. Daarop volgt Pasen.\n Question: Wat is goede vrijdag?", "output": "De dag dat Jezus gekruisigd werd"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kilwa is an administrative ward in Kilindi District of Tanga Region in Tanzania. The ward covers an area of 153 km2 (59 sq mi), and has an average elevation of 858 m (2,815 ft). According to the 2012 census, the ward has a total population of 6,835.\n Question: Where is the Kilwa Tanga", "output": "Kilwa is an administrative ward in Kilindi District of Tanga Region in Tanzania. The ward covers an area of 153 km2 (59 sq mi), and has an average elevation of 858 m (2,815 ft).\n\nAccording to the 2012 census, the ward has a total population of 6,835."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lee was born at home on 16 September 1923, the first child to Lee Chin Koon, a Semarang born Singaporean, and Chua Jim Neo, at 92 Kampong Java Road in Singapore, then part of the British Empire. Both of Lee's parents were English-educated third-generation Straits Chinese, with his paternal side being of Hakka descent from Dabu County. He was named 'Kuan Yew', meaning 'light and brightness', alternately meaning 'bringing great glory to one's ancestors'. Lee's paternal grandfather Lee Hoon Leong, who was described as \"especially westernised\", had worked on British ships as a purser, and hence gave Lee the Western name 'Harry'\n\nAs prime minister from 1959 to 1990, Lee presided over many of Singapore's advancements. He oversaw Singapore's transformation from an island nation with a high illiteracy rate and no natural resources into a developed country with a high-income economy within a single generation, commonly termed (from his autobiography) as 'From the third world to the first world'. Singapore's gross national product per capita (GNP) rose from $1,240 in 1959 to $18,437 in 1990. The unemployment rate in Singapore dropped from 13.5% in 1959 to 1.7% in 1990. External trade increased from $7.3 billion in 1959 to $205 billion in 1990. In other areas, the life expectancy at birth for Singaporeans rose from 65 years at 1960 to 74 years in 1990. The population of Singapore increased from 1.6 million in 1959 to 3 million in 1990. The number of public flats in Singapore rose from 22,975 in 1959 (then under the Singapore Improvement Trust) to 667,575 in 1990. The Singaporean literacy rate increased from 52% in 1957 to 90% in 1990. Telephone lines per 100 Singaporeans increased from 3 in 1960 to 38 in 1990. Visitor arrivals to Singapore rose from 100,000 in 1960 to 5.3 million in 1990.\n Question: Given a reference text about Lee Kuan Yew, tell me when they were born, when they were president, and what their most famous accomplishment was in office.", "output": "Lee Kuan Yew was born on 16 September 1923. \nHe served as the inaugural Prime Minister of Singapore from 1959 to 1990.\nHis most famous accomplishment in office was overseeing Singapore's transformation from an island nation with a high illiteracy rate and no natural resources into a developed country with a high-income economy within a single generation, commonly termed (from his autobiography) as 'From the third world to the first world."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Chardonnay (UK: /\u02c8\u0283\u0251\u02d0rd\u0259ne\u026a/, US: /\u02cc\u0283\u0251\u02d0rd\u0259n\u02c8e\u026a/, French: [\u0283a\u0281d\u0254n\u025b] (listen)) is a green-skinned grape variety used in the production of white wine. The variety originated in the Burgundy wine region of eastern France, but is now grown wherever wine is produced, from England to New Zealand. For new and developing wine regions, growing Chardonnay is seen as a 'rite of passage' and an easy entry into the international wine market.\n\nThe Chardonnay grape itself is neutral, with many of the flavors commonly associated with the wine being derived from such influences as terroir and oak. It is vinified in many different styles, from the lean, crisply mineral wines of Chablis, France, to New World wines with oak and tropical fruit flavors. In cool climates (such as Chablis and the Carneros AVA of California), Chardonnay wine tends to be medium to light body with noticeable acidity and flavors of green plum, apple, and pear. In warmer locations (such as the Adelaide Hills and Mornington Peninsula in Australia and Gisborne and Marlborough region of New Zealand), the flavors become more citrus, peach, and melon, while in very warm locations (such as the Central Coast AVA of California), more fig and tropical fruit notes such as banana and mango come out. Wines that have gone through malolactic fermentation tend to have softer acidity and fruit flavors with buttery mouthfeel and hazelnut notes.\n Question: What is Chardonnay?", "output": "Chardonnay (UK: /\u02c8\u0283\u0251\u02d0rd\u0259ne\u026a/, US: /\u02cc\u0283\u0251\u02d0rd\u0259n\u02c8e\u026a/, French: [\u0283a\u0281d\u0254n\u025b] (listen)) is a green-skinned grape variety used in the production of white wine. The Chardonnay grape itself is neutral, with many of the flavors commonly associated with the wine being derived from such influences as terroir and oak. It is vinified in many different styles, from the lean, crisply mineral wines of Chablis, France, to New World wines with oak and tropical fruit flavors."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Shibuya Station is a railway station in Shibuya, Tokyo, Japan, operated jointly by East Japan Railway Company (JR East), Keio Corporation, Tokyu Corporation, and Tokyo Metro. With 2.4 million passengers on an average weekday in 2004, it is the fourth-busiest commuter rail station in Japan and the world (after Shinjuku, Ikebukuro, and \u014csaka / Umeda) handling a large amount of commuter traffic between the city center and suburbs to the south and west.\n Question: In which country are the world's four busiest commuter rail stations located?", "output": "Japan"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Flex Computer System was developed by Michael Foster and Ian Currie of Royal Signals and Radar Establishment in Malvern, England, during the late 1970s and 1980s. It used a tagged storage scheme to implement a capability architecture, and was designed for the safe and efficient implementation of strongly typed procedures.\n Question: Given this reference text about the Flex Computer System, why was it created?", "output": "It was designed for the safe and efficient implementation of strongly typed procedures."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: National Beer Day is celebrated in the United States every year on April 7, marking the day that the Cullen\u2013Harrison Act came into force after having been signed into law by President Franklin D. Roosevelt on March 22, 1933. This led to the Eighteenth Amendment being repealed on December 5, 1933, with the ratification of the Twenty-first Amendment. April 6, the day prior to National Beer Day, is known as New Beer's Eve.\n Question: Given this paragraph about National Beer Day in the United States, which president signed National Beer Day into law?", "output": "Franklin D. Roosevelt."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the 21st century alone, UVA teams have won seventeen NCAA championships. The men's teams have won recent NCAA titles in basketball (2019); lacrosse (2003, 2006, 2011, 2019, and 2021); baseball (2015); soccer (2009 and 2014); and tennis (2013, 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2022). UVA women have won recent NCAA titles in rowing (2010 and 2012) and swimming & diving (2021 and 2022). The Cavaliers rank first in the ACC (a power conference) with 22 men's NCAA Championships, and rank second in the conference with nine women's NCAA Championships.\n Question: According to this paragraph, how many NCAA championships has UVA won?", "output": "UVA has won 17 NCAA championships."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the United States, the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) awards certification based on the number of albums and singles sold through retail and other ancillary markets. Other countries have similar awards (see music recording certification). Certification is not automatic; for an award to be made, the record label must first request certification. The audit is conducted against net shipments after returns (most often an artist's royalty statement is used), which includes albums sold directly to retailers and one-stops, direct-to-consumer sales (music clubs and mail order) and other outlets.\n\nDescription and qualifications\n\nA platinum award for the album GHV2 of Madonna\nA Gold record is a song or album that sells 500,000 units (records, tapes, and compact discs). The award was launched in 1958; originally, the requirement for a Gold single was one million units sold and a Gold album represented $1 million in sales (at wholesale value, around a third of the list price). In 1975, the additional requirement of 500,000 units sold was added for Gold albums. Reflecting growth in record sales, the Platinum award was added in 1976, for albums able to sell one million units, and singles selling two million units. The Multi-Platinum award was introduced in 1984, signifying multiple Platinum levels of albums and singles. In 1989, the sales thresholds for singles were reduced to 500,000 for Gold and 1,000,000 for Platinum, reflecting a decrease in sales of singles. In 1992, RIAA began counting each disc in a multi-disc set as one unit toward certification. Reflecting additional growth in music sales, the Diamond award was instituted in 1999 for albums or singles selling ten million units. Because of these changes in criteria, the sales level associated with a particular award depends on when the award was made.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) awards, tell me how many albums need to be sold to get an award.", "output": "As of 1989, a song or album needed to exceed a sales threshold of 500,000 for Gold and 1,000,000 for Platinum. In 1999 after a growth in music sales, the Diamond award was introduced for songs or albums that sold over 10,000,000 units."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hendrik \"Erik\" Dekker (born 21 August 1970) is a retired Dutch professional road racing cyclist active from 1992 until 2006. He was a member of the Rabobank cycling team from 1992 till 2006. From 2007 to 2015 he was one of Rabobank's team managers.\n\nCycling career\nAmateur career\nDekker rode his first race at eight, and soon became successful. In 1985 he was invited to join the national selection for juniors. As an amateur, his most important results were second places at the youth world championships in Bergamo in 1987 and at the road race in the 1992 Summer Olympics. In that Olympic road race, Dekker got away at 30 km before the finish, together with Fabio Casartelli and Dainis Ozols. Dekker was outsprinted by Casartelli, but was so happy that he won a medal that he also finished with his arms in the air.\n\nDirectly after the Olympic Games, he became professional, and rode his first race a few weeks later in the Tour de l'Avenir.\n\nProfessional career\nHis first win as a professional was a stage of the Tour of the Basque Country of 1994, the year he rode his first Tour de France. In 1997 Dekker won the Ronde van Nederland, but a large part of 1998 was lost because of injuries.\n\nThe year 2000 was Dekker's best. He won three stages in the 2000 Tour de France, although neither a sprinter nor a favourite for the overall win, and was voted most combative cyclist. In the autumn of that year, Dekker won his first classic, the Cl\u00e1sica de San Sebasti\u00e1n.\n\nIn 2001 Dekker won the Amstel Gold Race and the UCI Road World Cup. In the 2001 Tour de France he took a stage, after having helped his teammate Marc Wauters to a stage win. At the end of the year he was named Dutch Sportsman of the year.\n\nThe years 2002 and 2003 were less successful because of injuries. He came back in 2004 in the spring classics and a victory in Paris\u2013Tours. He had announced his retirement for the autumn of 2006, but he crashed heavily in the 2006 Tour de France and decided to stop.\n\nManaging career\nIn 2007, Dekker started as team manager of the Rabobank team. At the end of the 2015 season, he left the team.\n Question: Tell me about the career of Erik Dekker", "output": "Hendrik \"Erik\" Dekker (born 21 August 1970) is a retired Dutch professional road racing cyclist active from 1992 until 2006. He was a member of the Rabobank cycling team from 1992 till 2006. From 2007 to 2015 he was one of Rabobank's team managers.\n\nCycling career\nAmateur career\nDekker rode his first race at eight, and soon became successful. In 1985 he was invited to join the national selection for juniors. As an amateur, his most important results were second places at the youth world championships in Bergamo in 1987 and at the road race in the 1992 Summer Olympics. In that Olympic road race, Dekker got away at 30 km before the finish, together with Fabio Casartelli and Dainis Ozols. Dekker was outsprinted by Casartelli, but was so happy that he won a medal that he also finished with his arms in the air.\n\nDirectly after the Olympic Games, he became professional, and rode his first race a few weeks later in the Tour de l'Avenir.\n\nProfessional career\nHis first win as a professional was a stage of the Tour of the Basque Country of 1994, the year he rode his first Tour de France. In 1997 Dekker won the Ronde van Nederland, but a large part of 1998 was lost because of injuries.\n\nThe year 2000 was Dekker's best. He won three stages in the 2000 Tour de France, although neither a sprinter nor a favourite for the overall win, and was voted most combative cyclist. In the autumn of that year, Dekker won his first classic, the Cl\u00e1sica de San Sebasti\u00e1n.\n\nIn 2001 Dekker won the Amstel Gold Race and the UCI Road World Cup. In the 2001 Tour de France he took a stage, after having helped his teammate Marc Wauters to a stage win. At the end of the year he was named Dutch Sportsman of the year.\n\nThe years 2002 and 2003 were less successful because of injuries. He came back in 2004 in the spring classics and a victory in Paris\u2013Tours. He had announced his retirement for the autumn of 2006, but he crashed heavily in the 2006 Tour de France and decided to stop.\n\nManaging career\nIn 2007, Dekker started as team manager of the Rabobank team. At the end of the 2015 season, he left the team."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Edina's parkland and open space total more than 1,550 acres (6.3 km2). The Edina Park and Recreation Department oversees 44 parks, which include amenities such as baseball, football and soccer fields; softball diamonds; basketball and tennis courts; outdoor skating rinks; playground equipment for young children; and picnic shelters. The Department also maintains eight miles (13 km) of scenic pathways for bicycling, walking, jogging, cross-country skiing and snowshoeing.\n Question: Given a reference text about parks in Edina, determine the average size of its parks.", "output": "Since there are 44 total parks and a total of 1,550 acres across all parks, the average size of each park would be about 35 acres, because 1,550 divided by 44 is 35 after rounding to the nearest whole number."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The greater blue-ringed octopus (Hapalochlaena lunulata) is one of four species of extremely venomous blue-ringed octopuses belonging to the family Octopodidae. This particular species of blue-ringed octopus is known as one of the most toxic marine animals in the world.\n Question: Is the blue-ring octopus harmless?", "output": "No, it is extremely toxic."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: August 15, 1947\n Question: Given this paragraph about battles during India Independence day, what was the date when India win the Independence", "output": "Independence Day is celebrated annually on 15 August as a public holiday in India commemorating the nation's independence from the United Kingdom on 15 August 1947, the day when the provisions of the Indian Independence Act, which transferred legislative sovereignty to the Indian Constituent Assembly, came into effect. India retained King George VI as head of state until its transition to a republic, when the Constitution of India came into effect on 26 January 1950 (celebrated as Indian Republic Day) and replaced the dominion prefix, Dominion of India, with the enactment of the sovereign law Constitution of India. India attained independence following the independence movement noted for largely non-violent resistance and civil disobedience."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Galaga is a 1981 fixed shooter arcade video game developed and published by Namco. In North America, it was released by Midway Manufacturing. It is the sequel to Galaxian (1979), Namco's first major video game hit in arcades. Controlling a starship, the player is tasked with destroying the Galaga forces in each stage while avoiding enemies and projectiles. Some enemies can capture a player's ship via a tractor beam, which can be rescued to transform the player into a \"dual fighter\" with additional firepower.\n Question: When was Galaga released?", "output": "Galaga was released in 1981 as a fixed shooter arcade video game developed and published by Namco."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Asa Butler Wood (August 26, 1865 - May 7, 1945) was an American politician and newspaper publisher, serving as a state senator in the U.S. state of Nebraska from 1924 to 1930. Born in Wapello County, Iowa. Wood entered the newspaper business as a printer in his teens In 1887, at the age of 21, he founded the Gering Courier, a newspaper he ran until his death in 1945. He was known as \"the dean of the newspapermen of the Nebraska Panhandle,\u201d and was at one time president of the Nebraska Press Association. He was also a breeder of cattle, and, like many publishers of that time, the local postmaster.\n\nIn 1925, he was elected state senator of Nebraska's Thirty-third District. He served as a Republican senator through 1930, and was known as an advocate of clean government and irrigation policy.\n\nDescribed as a \"walking encyclopedia\" of western Nebraska history,he served as president of the Nebraska Historical Society from 1936 to 1938.\n\nHe left the Courier to his son, Warren Wood, on his death in 1945.\n Question: Who is Asa Wood?", "output": "Born in Iowa, Asa Wood was a politician and newspaper publisher who later served as a state senator of Nebraska."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Who is Luka Modric?\n Question: Luka Modri\u0107 (Croatian pronunciation: [l\u00fb\u02d0ka m\u01d2\u02d0drit\u0255]; born 9 September 1985) is a Croatian professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for La Liga club Real Madrid and captains the Croatia national team. He plays mainly as a central midfielder, but can also play as an attacking midfielder or as a defensive midfielder. He is widely regarded as one of the greatest midfielders of all time, and as the greatest ever Croatian footballer.\n\nBorn in Zadar, Modri\u0107's childhood coincided with the Croatian War of Independence which displaced his family. In 2002, he was signed by Dinamo Zagreb at age 16, after showing promise with his hometown club NK Zadar's youth team. He continued his development in Zagreb, before spells on loan to Zrinjski Mostar and Inter Zapre\u0161i\u0107. He made his debut for Dinamo in 2005 and won three consecutive league titles and domestic cups, being named the Prva HNL Player of the Year in 2007. In 2008, he moved to Premier League club Tottenham Hotspur for a club-record transfer fee of \u00a316.5 million, where he led Spurs to their first UEFA Champions League appearance in almost 50 years, reaching the quarter-finals of the 2010\u201311 tournament.\n\nIn the summer of 2012, Modri\u0107 joined Real Madrid for a \u00a330 million transfer fee. There he became a key contributor and helped the team win La D\u00e9cima and was selected for the 2013\u201314 Champions League squad of the season. After Zinedine Zidane took over Madrid, Modri\u0107 was critical to three consecutive Champions League titles from 2015\u201316 to 2017\u201318, each time being voted into the squad of the season. He has won twenty-two major trophies at Real Madrid, including five UEFA Champions League titles, three La Liga titles, one Copa del Rey, four Supercopa de Espa\u00f1a titles, four UEFA Super Cup titles and five FIFA Club World Cup titles. He won the La Liga Award for \"Best Midfielder\" in 2016 for the second time, and the UEFA Club Football Award for \"Best Midfielder\" in 2017 and 2018. In 2015, he became the first Croatian player to be included in the FIFA FIFPRO World 11, in which he was regularly included until 2019 and then again in 2022, as well in the UEFA Team of the Year between 2016 and 2018. In 2018, Modri\u0107 became the first Croatian player to win the UEFA Men's Player of the Year Award, and by winning The Best FIFA Men's Player and Ballon d'Or awards, he became the first player other than Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo to claim the awards in more than a decade. In 2019, he was awarded the Golden Foot award for career results and personality.\n\nModri\u0107 made his international debut for Croatia against Argentina in March 2006, and scored his first international goal in a friendly match against Italy. Modri\u0107 has anchored Croatia's \"second Golden Generation\", participating in every major tournament Croatia has qualified for, including the UEFA Euro 2008, 2012, 2016, and 2020, as well as the 2006, 2014, 2018, and 2022 FIFA World Cup. At the Euro 2008, he was selected for the Team of the Tournament, becoming only the second Croatian to ever achieve this honour. Following group stage eliminations in his first two World Cups, Modri\u0107 led Croatia to the 2018 World Cup Final, winning the Golden Ball in process. At the following tournament, he led the team to a third-place finish, winning the Bronze Ball in process. In March 2021, he went on to become the country's most capped player in history. Furthermore, he has been named Croatian Footballer of the Year a record eleven times between 2007 and 2022.", "output": "Luka Modric is a Croatian professional football (soccer) player. He is considered one of the best midfielders of all time and best Croatian player ever. He was born in Zadar, Croatia. In 2002, at the age of 16, he signed with the biggest Croatian soccer club, Dinamo Zagreb where is stayed till 2008 when he signed with Tottenham Hotspur in England. In 2012 he signed with Real Madrid in Spain where he currently plays."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sushi (\u3059\u3057, \u5bff\u53f8, \u9ba8, \u9b93, pronounced [s\u026f\u0255i\ua71c] or [s\u026f\ua71c\u0255i]) is a Japanese dish of prepared vinegared rice (\u9ba8\u98ef, sushi-meshi), usually with some sugar and salt, accompanied by a variety of ingredients (\u306d\u305f, neta), such as seafood, often raw, and vegetables. Styles of sushi and its presentation vary widely, but the one key ingredient is \"sushi rice\", also referred to as shari (\u3057\u3083\u308a), or sumeshi (\u9162\u98ef).\n\nThe inventor of modern sushi is believed to be Hanaya Yohei, who invented nigiri-zushi, a type of sushi most known today, in which seafood is placed on hand-pressed vinegared rice, around 1824 in the Edo period (1603\u20131867). It was the fast food of the ch\u014dnin class in the Edo period.\n\nSushi is traditionally made with medium-grain white rice, though it can be prepared with brown rice or short-grain rice. It is very often prepared with seafood, such as squid, eel, yellowtail, salmon, tuna or imitation crab meat. Many types of sushi are vegetarian. It is often served with pickled ginger (gari), wasabi, and soy sauce. Daikon radish or pickled daikon (takuan) are popular garnishes for the dish.\n\nSushi is sometimes confused with sashimi, a similar dish in Japanese cuisine that consists of thinly sliced raw fish or occasionally meat.\n Question: What is a Japanese dish of prepared rice, usually with some sugar and salt, accompanied by a variety of ingredients, such as seafood, often raw, and vegetables?", "output": "Sushi is the answer to the question."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Since their formation, the Beatbullyz have had a busy career performing at local venues in Swindon. In 2008, they came 1st in Channel 4's unsigned band competition, which won them a chance to star in the soap opera Hollyoaks. In the same year, they released their album Rootz. In 2009, they got their break in the form of Radio 1's Big Weekend in Swindon, where they appeared on the \"BBC Introducing\" stage, introduced by Radio 1 DJ Huw Stephens. He invited them back for the Maida Vale Session in July. In August that year, they performed at the Moonfest as well as supporting Example in the later part of 2009.\n\nIn February 2010, they shared a stage with Scouting for Girls and backed N Dubz on their tour throughout March into April. Dappy from N Dubz said \"Beatbullyz are too unique, I love them, no-one sounds like them, Beatbullyz all the way man.\" They played their own gigs throughout April, including a performance at the Playaway Festival. The next month they were back at Radio 1's Big Weekend in Wales where Fearne Cotten introduced them, pledging her support when they headlined the BBC Introducing stage. They released their debut single Skillz that May.\n\nIn 2010 they shared a stage with Eliza Doolittle and performed at the Wireless Festival in July. They unveiled their second release, Bounce and then their third release Human Nature and the last release single Heartbeat Ft Lizzy Paterson.Beatbullyz played at the Big Arts Day in Swindon at Lydiard Park. They carried on touring, sharing the stage with such acts as Professor Green and Tinchy Stryder at Spa Bidlington. They recorded a track with, Lizzie Patterson, sister of Robert Patterson, in 2010. In August, they supported Jason Derulo on his UK tour as well as doing their own tour ending in February 2011. In September 2010, Beatbullyz released their album Human Nature and throughout December supported JLS on their tour across the UK in 2010. They supported Example in their hometown Swindon at the MECA. Bozo is featured on a track with another local from Swindon, Daine Gooden. In May 2011 they supported Coolio.\n Question: Which DJ Introduced BeatBullyz on the BBC Introducting stage?", "output": "DJ Huw Stephens introduced BeatBullyz on the BBC Introducing stage on Radio 1."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The school first opened in 1962 as Marymount College, a women's junior college founded by the Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary (RSHM). Due to financial hardship Marymount College sought to sell the books of its library. Donald E. Ross visited the campus to purchase the library, but was so inspired by the school he decided to stay and help it succeed. In 1971, a period of transition began, and the school was placed under the control of a lay board. At that time, Donald E. Ross was named president. In 1974, the name was changed to the College of Boca Raton. The college was granted accreditation at Level II in 1986. In 1988, it was accredited at Level III. During this time, it was transformed from a two-year school to a four-year college with a master's program.\n\nEntrance of Lynn University in Boca Raton\nThe College of Boca Raton became Lynn University in 1991 to honor its benefactors, the Lynn family.\n\nIn 2003\u20132004, Donald E. Ross was paid a salary of over $5,000,000, making him at the time the highest-paid college or university president in the nation. Lynn University retained the national accounting firm KPMG to determine an equitable retirement compensation package for Ross considering his performance and 35-year term of service (\"More than $4.5 million was put aside for his planned June 2006 retirement \u2013 an influx of cash designed to make up for decades of no retirement benefits\" being allocated due to budget concerns). This was a third of the endowment for the university. On July 1, 2006, Ross retired after 35 years as the university's president; Kevin M. Ross succeeded his father in office.\n\nOn October 22, 2012, the university hosted the third and final 2012 U.S. presidential debate between U.S. president Barack Obama and former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney concerning U.S. foreign policy. The debate was held at the Keith C. and Elaine Johnson World Performing Arts Center and was moderated by journalist Bob Schieffer of CBS News.\n Question: Who was the highest-paid College president in 2003-2004 in U.S.?", "output": "In 2003\u20132004, Donald E. Ross was paid a salary of over $5,000,000, making him at the time the highest-paid college or university president in the nation."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 2001, Keshubhai Patel's health was failing and the BJP lost a few state assembly seats in by-elections. Allegations of abuse of power, corruption and poor administration were made, and Patel's standing had been damaged by his administration's handling of the earthquake in Bhuj in 2001. The BJP national leadership sought a new candidate for the chief ministership, and Modi, who had expressed misgivings about Patel's administration, was chosen as a replacement. Although Advani did not want to ostracise Patel and was concerned about Modi's lack of experience in government, Modi declined an offer to be Patel's deputy chief minister, telling Advani and Atal Bihari Vajpayee that he was \"going to be fully responsible for Gujarat or not at all\". On 3 October 2001 he replaced Patel as chief minister of Gujarat, with the responsibility of preparing the BJP for the December 2002 elections. On 7 October, he was sworn in, and entered the Gujarat state legislature on 24 February 2002 by winning a by-election to the Rajkot \u2013 II constituency, defeating Ashwin Mehta of the INC.\n Question: Why was Advani concerned about Modi\u2019s appointment as a chief minister of Gujarat?", "output": "For Modi being a candidate  for the chief minister of Gujarat, Advani was concerned about Modi\u2019s lack of political experience."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The school was opened in 1966 under the name John F. Kennedy High School. It was Plainview's second high school. Originally, all senior high school students went to Plainview High School, but were split by residential location when JFK High School opened. In 1991, Plainview-Old Bethpage High School and John F. Kennedy High School were merged into the John F. Kennedy High School building. The school was renamed Plainview-Old Bethpage John F. Kennedy High School. The newly merged school abandoned Plainview High School's colors of green and white in favor of John F. Kennedy's blue and white. Both the original Plainview High School mascot, the Gulls, and the John F. Kennedy High School mascot, the Eagles, were replaced with a new mascot, The Hawks. It is now the only public high school for residents of the community of Plainview and Old Bethpage.\n Question: here is a short history of Plainview \u2013 Old Bethpage John F. Kennedy High School, which color was changed when the name changed in 1991?", "output": "The school colors swapped out green for blue and white stayed the same."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: When diet colas first entered the market, beginning with Diet Rite, the Coca-Cola Company had a long-standing policy to use the Coca-Cola name only on its flagship cola, and so its diet cola was named Tab when it was released in 1963. Its rival Pepsi had no such qualms, and after the long-term success of its sugar-free Diet Pepsi (launched in 1964) became clear, Coca-Cola decided to launch a competing sugar-free brand under the Coca-Cola name that could be marketed more easily than Tab. Diet Coke was launched in 1982 and quickly overtook Tab in sales by a wide margin, though the older drink would remain on the market for decades until the COVID-19 pandemic forced Coca-Cola to discontinue Tab along with other slower-selling drinks in 2020.\n\nDiet Coke is not based on the Coca-Cola formula, but instead on Tab. The controversial New Coke, introduced in 1985, used a version of the Diet Coke recipe that contained high-fructose corn syrup and had a slightly different balance of ingredients. In 2005, the company introduced Coca-Cola Zero (renamed Coca-Cola Zero Sugar in 2017), a sugar-free formula more closely based on original Coca-Cola.\n\nIn 2005, under pressure from retailer Walmart (which was impressed with the over-the-counter popularity of Splenda sweetener), the company released a new formulation called \"Diet Coke sweetened with Splenda\". Sucralose and acesulfame potassium replaced aspartame in this version. As the formulation was done to mollify one retailer, this variety had little advertising and promotion, as the company preferred to market Coca-Cola Zero instead. By late 2009, most distributors had stopped distributing the Splenda-formulated Diet Coke.\n\nIn 2018, in an effort to be more appealing to millennials, Diet Coke was packaged in a taller, more slender can (of the same volume) and introduced four new flavors. The cans reverted to the conventional shape a year later.\n Question: Given this reference text, why and when did Coke use Splenda as a sweetener in diet Coke?", "output": "Pressure from Walmart pressured Coca-Cola to release a version of diet Coke sweetened with Splenda from 2005 until most distribution ended in 2009."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Natural hydrogen (known as white hydrogen), is naturally occurring molecular hydrogen on or in Earth (as opposed to hydrogen produced in the laboratory or in industry). The name white hydrogen distinguishes it from green hydrogen, which is produced from renewable energy sources, and from grey, brown or black hydrogen, which is obtained from fossil sources or from the electrolysis of water. Natural hydrogen may be renewable, non-polluting and allows for lower cost operation compared to industrial hydrogen. Natural hydrogen has been identified in many source rocks in areas beyond the sedimentary basins where oil companies typically operate.\n\nOrigin of natural hydrogen\nThere are several sources of natural hydrogen:\n\n- degassing of deep hydrogen from the Earth's crust and mantle;\n- reaction of water with ultrabasic rocks (serpentinisation);\n- contact of water with reducing agents in the Earth's mantle;\n- interaction of water with freshly exposed rock surfaces (weathering);\n- decomposition of hydroxyl ions in the structure of minerals;\n- Natural radiolysis of water;\n- decomposition of organic matter;\n- biological activity\n- Extraction\n- Natural hydrogen is extracted from wells, mixed with other gases such as nitrogen or helium.\n\nSeveral sources have been identified in France. Geologists Alain Prinzhofer and Eric Derville have demonstrated the existence of large reservoirs in a dozen countries, including Mali and the United States. However, their potential remains difficult to assess.\n\nNumerous emanations on the ocean floor have been identified but are difficult to exploit. The discovery of a significant emergence in Russia in 2008 suggests the possibility of extracting native hydrogen in geological environments.\n\nGeology\nNatural hydrogen is generated continuously from a variety of natural sources. There are many known hydrogen emergences on mid-ocean ridges. Another of the known reactions, serpentinisation, occurs under the sea floor (in the oceanic crust).\n\nDiagenetic origin (iron oxidation) in the sedimentary basins of cratons, notably in Russia. Other sources are being explored, such as mantle hydrogen, or hydrogen from radiolysis (natural electrolysis) or from bacterial activity. In France, the Alps and Pyrenees are suitable for exploitation. New Caledonia has hyperalkaline sources that show dihydrogen emissions. A large accumulation of natural hydrogen was discovered in Bourakebougou (Mali).\n\nCharacteristics\nDihydrogen is very soluble in fresh water, especially at depth (solubility increases with pressure).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_hydrogen\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Natural hydrogen, what are other forms of hydrogen obtained using different processes?", "output": "Green hydrogen, which is produced from renewable energy sources, and from grey, brown or black hydrogen, which is obtained from fossil sources or from the electrolysis of water."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Short for \"simultaneous\", simul climbing is when two climbers move at the same time. The pseudo-lead climber places gear that the pseudo-follower collects. When the leader runs low on gear they construct a belay station where the follower can join them to exchange gear. The stronger climber is often the pseudo-follower since a fall by the follower would pull the leader from below towards the last piece of gear\u2014a potentially devastating fall for the leader. In contrast, a fall from the leader would pull the follower from above, resulting in a less serious fall. Most speed ascents involve some form of simul climbing but may also include sections of standard free climbing and the use of placed gear for advancement (i.e. partial aid or pulling on gear).\n Question: Is simul climbing more dangerous for the leader or the follower?", "output": "Simul climbing is more dangerous for the leader, since a fall by the follower would pull the leader from below towards the last piece of gear."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: On May 5, 2022, in a secret auction at the brand's museum in Germany, Mercedes-Benz sold one of just two 1955 300 SLR Uhlenhaut coupes from its extensive collection of historical automobiles\u2014which dates back to the earliest days of the car in the late 19th century. The sale, to a private buyer, was for 135 million euros ($142,769,250). It handily outstripped the previous record-setting $48.4-million sale of a 1962 Ferrari 250 GTO at a 2018 auction to become the most expensive car ever sold at auction. Both of these high-dollar sales were brokered by RM Sotheby's.\n Question: What was the most expensive car ever sold at auction", "output": "A 1955 Mercedes-Benz 300 SLR was reportedly sold in a secret auction for 135 Million Euros"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Steven Allan Spielberg KBE (/\u02c8spi\u02d0lb\u025c\u02d0r\u0261/; born December 18, 1946) is an American film director, writer and producer. A major figure of the New Hollywood era and pioneer of the modern blockbuster, he is the most commercially successful director of all time. He is the recipient of various accolades, including three Academy Awards, two BAFTA Awards, and four Directors Guild of America Awards, as well as the AFI Life Achievement Award in 1995, the Kennedy Center Honor in 2006, the Cecil B. DeMille Award in 2009 and the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2015. Seven of his films have been inducted into the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as \"culturally, historically or aesthetically significant\".\n Question: Who is Steven Spielberg?", "output": "Steven Spielberg is a celebrated American film director, writer and producer."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The title \"Pharaoh\" is used for those rulers of Ancient Egypt who ruled after the unification of Upper and Lower Egypt by Narmer during the Early Dynastic Period, approximately 3100 BC. However, the specific title was not used to address the kings of Egypt by their contemporaries until the New Kingdom's 18th Dynasty, c. 1400 BC. Along with the title Pharaoh for later rulers, there was an Ancient Egyptian royal titulary used by Egyptian kings which remained relatively constant during the course of Ancient Egyptian history, initially featuring a Horus name, a Sedge and Bee (nswt-bjtj) name and a Two Ladies (nbtj) name, with the additional Golden Horus, nomen and prenomen titles being added successively during later dynasties.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Pharaohs, when the title used to address the kings of egypt", "output": "1400 BC"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Santa Monica (Spanish for 'Saint Monica'; Santa M\u00f3nica) is a city in Los Angeles County, situated along Santa Monica Bay on California's South Coast. Santa Monica's 2020 U.S. Census population was 93,076. Santa Monica is a popular resort town, owing to its climate, beaches, and hospitality industry. It has a diverse economy, hosting headquarters of companies such as Hulu, Universal Music Group, Lionsgate Films, and The Recording Academy.\n\nSanta Monica traces its history to Rancho San Vicente y Santa M\u00f3nica, granted in 1839 to the Sep\u00falveda family of California. The rancho was later sold to John P. Jones and Robert Baker, who in 1875, along with his Californio heiress wife Arcadia Bandini de Stearns Baker, founded Santa Monica, which incorporated as a city in 1886. The city developed into a seaside resort during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, with the creation of tourist attractions such as Palisades Park, the Santa Monica Pier, Ocean Park, and the Hotel Casa del Mar.\n Question: When was Santa Monica founded?", "output": "Santa Monica was founded in 1886."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Arlington Public Schools operates the county's public K-12 education system of 22 elementary schools; 6 middle schools (Dorothy Hamm Middle School, Gunston Middle School, Kenmore Middle School, Swanson Middle School, Thomas Jefferson Middle School, and Williamsburg Middle School); and 3 public high schools (Wakefield High School, Washington-Liberty High School, and Yorktown High School). H-B Woodlawn and Arlington Tech are alternative public schools. Arlington County spends about half of its local revenues on education. For the FY2013 budget, 83 percent of funding was from local revenues, and 12 percent from the state. Per pupil expenditures are expected to average $18,700, well above its neighbors, Fairfax County ($13,600) and Montgomery County ($14,900).\n Question: Given this paragraph about Arlington Virginia, how many elementary schools are there in the county's public education system?", "output": "There are 22 elementary schools in the Arlington public education system."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: During World War II, the United States forcibly relocated and incarcerated at least 125,284 people of Japanese descent in 75 identified incarceration sites\n Question: During WWII, how many Japanese Americans were forcibly relocated and incarcerated?", "output": "125,284"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Egyptian pyramids are ancient masonry structures located in Egypt. Sources cite at least 118 identified \"Egyptian\" pyramids. Approximately 80 pyramids were built within the Kingdom of Kush, now located in the modern country of Sudan. Of those located in modern Egypt, most were built as tombs for the country's pharaohs and their consorts during the Old and Middle Kingdom periods.\n\nThe earliest known Egyptian pyramids are found at Saqqara, northwest of Memphis, although at least one step-pyramid-like structure has been found at Saqqara, dating to the First Dynasty: Mastaba 3808, which has been attributed to the reign of Pharaoh Anedjib, with inscriptions, and other archaeological remains of the period, suggesting there may have been others. The otherwise earliest among these is the Pyramid of Djoser built c. 2630\u20132610 BCE during the Third Dynasty. This pyramid and its surrounding complex are generally considered to be the world's oldest monumental structures constructed of dressed masonry.\n\nThe most famous Egyptian pyramids are those found at Giza, on the outskirts of Cairo. Several of the Giza pyramids are counted among the largest structures ever built. The Pyramid of Khufu is the largest Egyptian pyramid. It is the only one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World still in existence, despite its being the oldest wonder by about 2,000 years.\n Question: Given this paragraph about pyramids , when was the first pyramid built?", "output": "2630\u20132610 BCE"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Paul Lansky (born 1944) is an American composer. He was educated at Manhattan's High School of Music and Art, Queens College and Princeton University, studying with George Perle and Milton Babbitt, among others. He received his Ph.D. in music from Princeton in 1973. His doctoral dissertation consisted of an essay titled \"Affine music\" and a composition of string quartet.Originally intending to pursue a career in performance, during 1965\u201366 he played the French horn with the Dorian Wind Quintet. He left the group to attend graduate school. From 1969 until his retirement in 2014 he was on the faculty at Princeton University where he retired as the William Shubael Conant Professor of Music.\n Question: Given this paragraph about composer Paul Lansky, did he have an advanced degree?", "output": "Yes. Paul Lansky graduated from Princeton University with a Ph.D in music."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The primary housing areas for first-year students are McCormick Road Dormitories, often called \"Old Dorms\", and Alderman Road Dormitories, often called \"New Dorms\". The 1970s-era Alderman Road Dorms are being fully replaced with brand new dormitory buildings in the same area. The replacements feature hall-style living arrangements with common areas and many modern amenities. Instead of being torn down and replaced like the original New Dorms, the Old Dorms will see a $105 million renovation project between 2017 and 2022. They were constructed in 1950, and are also hall-style constructions but with fewer amenities. The Old Dorms are closer to the students' classes.\n Question: According to this paragraph, what are the \"Old Dorms\" at the University of Virginia?", "output": "The \"Old Dorms\" at the University of Virginia often refer to the primary housing area for first-year students on McCormick Road."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A snowball effect is a process that starts from an initial state of small significance and builds upon itself (an exacerbating feedback), becoming larger (graver, more serious), and also perhaps potentially dangerous or disastrous (a vicious circle), though it might be beneficial instead (a virtuous circle). This is a clich\u00e9 in cartoons and modern theatrics, and it is also used in psychology.\n\nThe common analogy is with the rolling of a snowball down a snow-covered hillside. As it rolls the ball will pick up more snow, gaining more mass and surface area, and picking up even more snow and momentum as it rolls along.\n\nIn aerospace engineering, it is used to describe the multiplication effect in an original weight saving. A reduction in the weight of the fuselage will require less lift, meaning the wings can be smaller. Hence less thrust is required and therefore smaller engines, resulting in a greater weight saving than the original reduction. This iteration can be repeated several times, although the decrease in weight gives diminishing returns.\n\nThe startup process of a feedback electronic oscillator, when power to the circuit is switched on, is a technical application of the snowball effect. Electronic noise is amplified by the oscillator circuit and returned to its input filtered to contain primarily the selected (desired) frequency, gradually getting stronger in each cycle, until a steady-state oscillation is established, when the circuit parameters satisfy the Barkhausen stability criterion.\n Question: Given a reference text about a snowball effect, tell me how it applies to aerospace engineering.", "output": "The snowball effect is used to describe the multiplication effect in an original weight saving in aerospace engineering."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Davie School (also known as the Old Davie School) is a historic school in Davie, Florida, USA. It is located at 6650 Griffin Road. It was designed by August Geiger. It opened its doors in 1918 to 90 students, and was in continuous use as a school until 1978. On March 29, 1988, it was added to the U.S. National Register of Historic Places. It is the oldest extant school building in Broward County.\n\nSchool building\nThe architect Geiger was hired by the school board in 1917 and presented them with his plans for the school that September. It is a T-shaped two-story building constructed of concrete with a textured stucco finish. The building has a hip roof with a surrounding parapet. Architectural elements include horseshoe and bell-shaped openings, raised bands of stucco and multiple panel windows.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Davie School, tell me when it was added to the register of historic places and when it was open and closed..", "output": "The Davie School opened in 1918 and closed in 1978. It was added to the U.S. National Register of Historic places on March 29, 1988."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Audiology (from Latin aud\u012bre, \"to hear\"; and from Greek -\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03af\u03b1, -logia) is a branch of science that studies hearing, balance, and related disorders. Audiologists treat those with hearing loss and proactively prevent related damage. By employing various testing strategies (e.g. behavioral hearing tests, otoacoustic emission measurements, and electrophysiologic tests), audiologists aim to determine whether someone has normal sensitivity to sounds. If hearing loss is identified, audiologists determine which portions of hearing (high, middle, or low frequencies) are affected, to what degree (severity of loss), and where the lesion causing the hearing loss is found (outer ear, middle ear, inner ear, auditory nerve and/or central nervous system). If an audiologist determines that a hearing loss or vestibular abnormality is present, they will provide recommendations for interventions or rehabilitation (e.g. hearing aids, cochlear implants, appropriate medical referrals).\n Question: In a concise bulleted list, tell me what audiologists do when they are seeing a patient", "output": "* Audiologists aim to determine whether someone has normal sensitivity to sounds.\n* If hearing loss is identified, audiologists determine which portions of hearing are affected, to what degree, and where the lesion causing the hearing loss is found\n* If an audiologist determines that hearing loss is present, they will provide recommendations for interventions or rehabilitation"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Viva Pi\u00f1ata: Party Animals is a video game developed by Krome Studios for the Microsoft Xbox 360 video game console, part of the Viva Pi\u00f1ata series. The game was released on October 30, 2007, in North America, November 15 in Australia, November 16 in Europe, and December 6 in Japan.\n Question: Given this paragraph, what were the regional release dates for Viva Pi\u00f1ata: Party Animals?", "output": "Viva Pi\u00f1ata: Party Animals was released for the Xbox 360 gaming console on October 30, 2007 in North America, November 15, 2007 in Australia, November 16, 2007 in Europe, and December 6, 2007 in Japan."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Vice-Admiral Alexander Colville, 7th Lord Colville of Culross (also spelled Colvill) (28 February 1717 \u2013 21 May 1770), served as the Commodore and Commander in Chief of His Majesty's Ships and Vessels in North America from 1757 to 1762. Colville wrote a well-preserved series of detailed, well-written letters to various other military leaders, his family, the King, and other influential people. These letters have provided more historical information about that time period than many other sources available. His writing was so prolific that many of his letters still surface in antique shops from London, to Halifax to New York City. He is a poorly remembered, but important, contributor to the UK control of the North American seas and the battles of the Seven Years' War of 1756\u20131763.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Vice-Admiral Alexander Colville, tell me when he died and what battles he fought in.", "output": "Vice-Admiral Alexander Colville fought in the battles of the Seven Years' War of 1756-1763 and died on May 21, 1770."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hutchinson attended 1,294 consecutive matches involving the Geelong Football Club between Round 11, 1963, and the 2019 preliminary final, inclusive. That streak came to an end when he and the general public were locked out of the Cats' 2020 Round 1 loss to Greater Western Sydney in Sydney due to the COVID-19 pandemic. If away games are excluded, Hutchinson's streak lasted from the early 1958 season to the 2019 preliminary final.\n Question: How many years was Hutchinson's streak, and what caused it to end?", "output": "Hutchinson's streak was 62 years (2019-1958+1) and it ended because of the lock out caused by the COVID-19 pandemic."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Murray's performance in Sofia Coppola's Lost in Translation (2003) earned him a Golden Globe and a British Academy Film Award and an Oscar nomination for Best Actor. He has frequently collaborated with directors Ivan Reitman, Harold Ramis, Wes Anderson, Sofia Coppola, Jim Jarmusch, John McNaughton and the Farrelly brothers. He received Golden Globe nominations for his roles in Ghostbusters, Rushmore (1998), Hyde Park on Hudson (2012), St. Vincent (2014), On the Rocks (2020) and the HBO miniseries Olive Kitteridge (2014), for which he later won his second Primetime Emmy Award.\n Question: What awards did Bill Murray receive for Lost in Translation?", "output": "Bill Murray earned a Golden Globe and a British Academy Film Award and an Oscar nomination for Best Actor for his role in Lost in Translation."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 2004, Nintendo released the Nintendo DS, which featured such innovations as dual screens \u2013 one of which being a touchscreen \u2013 and wireless connectivity for multiplayer play. Throughout its lifetime, more than 154 million units were sold, making it the most successful handheld console and the second best-selling console in history. In 2005, Nintendo released the Game Boy Micro, the last system in the Game Boy line. Sales did not meet Nintendo's expectations, with 2.5 million units being sold by 2007. In mid-2005, the Nintendo World Store was inaugurated in New York City.\n Question: Given this paragraph about video game consoles, when was the Nintendo DS released?", "output": "2004"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Our Favorite Things is a compilation DVD by the band Negativland, released on November 27, 2007. The original release date on October 23 was skipped due to a pressing error in the DVDs and the bonus CD, a collection of Negativland covers done by an a cappella doo-wop group. It contains 20 of the band's greatest \"hits\" animated by 20 different artists from all over the United States. The cover parodies the artwork of the film The Sound of Music as well as title of the film's song \"My Favorite Things\". The front features a \"review\" from the character Goofy saying, \"It's goofy\". The people on the cover are dolls.\n Question: What is on the DVD Our Favorite Things", "output": "Our Favorite Things is a compilation DVD by the band Negativland, released on November 27, 2007. The original release date on October 23 was skipped due to a pressing error in the DVDs and the bonus CD, a collection of Negativland covers done by an a cappella doo-wop group. \n\nIt contains 20 of the band's greatest \"hits\" animated by 20 different artists from all over the United States. The cover parodies the artwork of the film The Sound of Music as well as title of the film's song \"My Favorite Things\". The front features a \"review\" from the character Goofy saying, \"It's goofy\". The people on the cover are dolls."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: PPG Industries, Inc. is an American Fortune 500 company and global supplier of paints, coatings, and specialty materials. With headquarters in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, PPG operates in more than 70 countries around the globe. By revenue it is the largest coatings company in the world followed by AkzoNobel. It is headquartered in PPG Place, an office and retail complex in downtown Pittsburgh, and is known for its glass facade designed by Postmodern architect Philip Johnson.\n Question: Who is the largest coatings company in the world by revenue?", "output": "PPG Industries, Inc."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Allen Eager was born in New York City on January 10, 1927. He grew up in the Bronx. According to Denise McCluggage, Eager could read aged 3, and learned to drive at the age of 9 with the help of his mother, after she caught him driving a garbage truck near the hotels that his parents owned in the Catskill Mountains. He took clarinet lessons with David Weber of the New York Philharmonic at the age of 13.\n Question: Where did Allen Eager grow up?", "output": "Allen Eager grew up in the Bronx."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Catholic University of America (CUA) is a private Roman Catholic research university in Washington, D.C. It is a pontifical university of the Catholic Church in the United States and the only institution of higher education founded by U.S. Catholic bishops. Established in 1887 as a graduate and research center following approval by Pope Leo XIII, the university began offering undergraduate education in 1904. It is classified among \"R2: Doctoral Universities \u2013 High research activity\".\n\nIts campus is adjacent to the Brookland neighborhood, known as \"Little Rome\", which contains 60 Catholic institutions, including Trinity Washington University, the Dominican House of Studies, and Archbishop Carroll High School, as well as the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception.\n\nCUA's programs emphasize the liberal arts, professional education, and personal development. The school stays closely connected with the Catholic Church and Catholic organizations. The residential U.S. cardinals put on the American Cardinals Dinner each year to raise scholarship funds. The university also has a long history of working with the Knights of Columbus; its law school and basilica have dedications to the involvement and support of the Knights.\n Question: Given this reference text about the Catholic University of America, tell me when it was established, where it is located, and who founded it.", "output": "The Catholic University was founded in 1887 by the US Catholic Bishops, and is located in Washington, DC."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The French Revolution (French: R\u00e9volution fran\u00e7aise [\u0281ev\u0254lysj\u0254\u0303 f\u0281\u0251\u0303s\u025b\u02d0z]) was a period of radical political and societal change in France that began with the Estates General of 1789 and ended with the formation of the French Consulate in November 1799. Many of its ideas are considered fundamental principles of liberal democracy, while the values and institutions it created remain central to French political discourse.\n\nIts causes are generally agreed to be a combination of social, political and economic factors, which the Ancien R\u00e9gime proved unable to manage. In May 1789, widespread social distress led to the convocation of the Estates General, which was converted into a National Assembly in June. Continuing unrest culminated in the Storming of the Bastille on 14 July, which led to a series of radical measures by the Assembly, including the abolition of feudalism, the imposition of state control over the Catholic Church in France, and extension of the right to vote.\n Question: Given this paragraph on French Revolution, what were the main causes", "output": "The causes were multiple, including social, politic, and economic factors."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The United States Bill of Rights comprises the first ten amendments to the United States Constitution. Proposed following the often bitter 1787\u201388 debate over the ratification of the Constitution and written to address the objections raised by Anti-Federalists, the Bill of Rights amendments add to the Constitution specific guarantees of personal freedoms and rights, clear limitations on the government's power in judicial and other proceedings, and explicit declarations that all powers not specifically granted to the federal government by the Constitution are reserved to the states or the people. The concepts codified in these amendments are built upon those in earlier documents, especially the Virginia Declaration of Rights (1776), as well as the Northwest Ordinance (1787), the English Bill of Rights (1689), and Magna Carta (1215).\n\nLargely because of the efforts of Representative James Madison, who studied the deficiencies of the Constitution pointed out by anti-federalists and then crafted a series of corrective proposals, Congress approved twelve articles of amendment on September 25, 1789, and submitted them to the states for ratification. Contrary to Madison's proposal that the proposed amendments be incorporated into the main body of the Constitution (at the relevant articles and sections of the document), they were proposed as supplemental additions (codicils) to it. Articles Three through Twelve were ratified as additions to the Constitution on December 15, 1791, and became Amendments One through Ten of the Constitution. Article Two became part of the Constitution on May 5, 1992, as the Twenty-seventh Amendment. Article One is still pending before the states.\n\nAlthough Madison's proposed amendments included a provision to extend the protection of some of the Bill of Rights to the states, the amendments that were finally submitted for ratification applied only to the federal government. The door for their application upon state governments was opened in the 1860s, following ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment. Since the early 20th century both federal and state courts have used the Fourteenth Amendment to apply portions of the Bill of Rights to state and local governments. The process is known as incorporation.\n\nThere are several original engrossed copies of the Bill of Rights still in existence. One of these is on permanent public display at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.\n Question: What is the United States Bill of Rights?", "output": "The United States Bill of Rights comprises the first ten amendments to the United States Constitution. Proposed following the often bitter 1787\u201388 debate over the ratification of the Constitution and written to address the objections raised by Anti-Federalists, the Bill of Rights amendments add to the Constitution specific guarantees of personal freedoms and rights, clear limitations on the government's power in judicial and other proceedings, and explicit declarations that all powers not specifically granted to the federal government by the Constitution are reserved to the states or the people. The concepts codified in these amendments are built upon those in earlier documents, especially the Virginia Declaration of Rights (1776), as well as the Northwest Ordinance (1787), the English Bill of Rights (1689), and the Magna Carta (1215)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Korla, also known as Kurla or from Mandarin Chinese as Ku'erle or Kuerle, is the second largest city in Xinjiang. It is a county-level city and the seat of the Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture, the largest prefecture of China.\n\nKorla has existed since at least the Han Dynasty. Korla is known for its production of fragrant pears and is a production center for the Tarim oil fields.\n Question: What does Korla stand for?", "output": "Korla is the second largest city in Xinjiang, China. It is also known as Kurla or Kuerle. It is located in the Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture. It is known for fragrant pears and oil fields."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: GitHub Copilot is a cloud-based artificial intelligence tool developed by GitHub and OpenAI to assist users of Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio, Neovim, and JetBrains integrated development environments (IDEs) by autocompleting code. Currently available by subscription to individual developers, the tool was first announced by GitHub on 29 June 2021, and works best for users coding in Python, JavaScript, TypeScript, Ruby, and Go.\n Question: What is Github Copilot?", "output": "GitHub Copilot is a cloud-based artificial intelligence tool developed by GitHub and OpenAI"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Walt Disney World Resort, also called Walt Disney World or Disney World, is an entertainment resort complex in Bay Lake and Lake Buena Vista, Florida, United States, near the cities of Orlando and Kissimmee. Opened on October 1, 1971, the resort is operated by Disney Parks, Experiences and Products, a division of The Walt Disney Company. The property covers nearly 25,000 acres (39 sq mi; 101 km2), of which half has been used. The resort comprises four theme parks (Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney's Hollywood Studios, and Disney's Animal Kingdom), two water parks (Disney's Blizzard Beach and Disney's Typhoon Lagoon), 31 themed resort hotels, nine non-Disney hotels, several golf courses, a camping resort, and other entertainment venues, including the outdoor shopping center Disney Springs. On October 1, 2021, Walt Disney World started its celebration of its 50-year anniversary which lasted for 18 consecutive months ending on March 31, 2023.\n Question: Given this paragraph, what is the size in acres of Walt Disney World?", "output": "According to this text, Walt Disney World is 12,500 acres and sits on 25,000 acres of property owned by the company."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hickory wood is hard, stiff, dense and shock resistant. There are woods stronger than hickory and woods that are harder, but the combination of strength, toughness, hardness, and stiffness found in hickory wood is not found in any other commercial wood. It is used for tool handles, pickaxe handles, bows, wheel spokes, carts, drumsticks, lacrosse stick handles, golf club shafts (sometimes still called hickory stick, even though made of steel or graphite), the bottoms of skis, walking sticks, and for punitive use as a switch (like hazel), and especially as a cane-like hickory stick in schools and use by parents. Paddles are often made from hickory. This property of hickory wood has left a trace in some Native American languages: in Ojibwe, hickory is called mitigwaabaak, a compound of mitigwaab \"bow\" and the final -aakw \"hardwood tree\". Due to its grain structure, hickory is more susceptible to moisture absorption than other species of wood, and is therefore more prone to shrinkage, warping or swelling with changes in humidity.\n Question: Given this paragraph about hickory wood, tell me what sporting equipment it might be used for.", "output": "Hickory wood may be used to make lacrosse stick handles, golf club shafts, and the bottom of skis."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Massimo Bray is an academic publisher and a magazine editor. He was on the editorial board of the Italian Institute of Human Sciences until 1994. He is the cofounder of Notte della Taranta, which is among the most popular music festivals in Europe. He launched a blog on the Italian-language version of the Huffington Post.\n Question: Based on this paragraph about Massimo Bray, what language do you think he writes in?", "output": "Massimo Bray likely writes in Italian."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Evidence of human colonization in Sri Lanka appears at the site of Balangoda. Balangoda Man arrived on the island about 125,000 years ago and has been identified as Mesolithic hunter-gatherers who lived in caves. Several of these caves, including the well-known Batadombalena and the Fa Hien Cave, have yielded many artifacts from these people, who are currently the first known inhabitants of the island.\n\nBalangoda Man probably created Horton Plains, in the central hills, by burning the trees in order to catch game. However, the discovery of oats and barley on the plains at about 15,000 BCE suggests that agriculture had already developed at this early date.\n\nSeveral minute granite tools (about 4 centimetres in length), earthenware, remnants of charred timber, and clay burial pots date to the Mesolithic. Human remains dating to 6000 BCE have been discovered during recent excavations around a cave at Warana Raja Maha Vihara and in the Kalatuwawa area.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the prehistory of Sri Lanka, what are the evidence for prehistoric human colonization in Sri Lanka?", "output": "The oldest prehistoric evidence of human colonization in Sri Lanka goes back to about 125,000 years to a man named Balangoda Man. He was a Mesolithic hunter-gatherer who lived in caves. Furthermore, human remains dating back to 6000 BCE have also been found in several cites in the country."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jiang Zemin (17 August 1926 \u2013 30 November 2022) was a Chinese politician who served as general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) from 1989 to 2002, as chairman of the Central Military Commission from 1989 to 2004, and as president of China from 1993 to 2003. Jiang was paramount leader of China from 1989 to 2002. He was the core leader of the third generation of Chinese leadership, one of four core leaders alongside Mao Zedong, Deng Xiaoping and Xi Jinping.\n\nBorn in Yangzhou, Jiangsu, Jiang joined the CCP while he was in college. After the establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949, he received training at the Stalin Automobile Works in Moscow in the 1950s, later returning to Shanghai in 1962 to serve in various institutes, later being sent between 1970-1972 to Romania as part of an expert team to establish machinery manufacturing plants in the country. After 1979, he was appointed as the vice chair of two commissions by vice premier Gu Mu to oversee the newly-established special economic zones (SEZs). He became the vice minister of the newly-established Ministry of Electronics Industry and a member of the CCP Central Committee in 1982.\n\nJiang was appointed as the mayor of Shanghai in 1985, later being promoted to its Communist Party secretary, as well as a member of the CCP Politburo, in 1987. Jiang came to power unexpectedly as a compromise candidate following the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests and massacre, when he replaced Zhao Ziyang as CCP general secretary after Zhao was ousted for his support for the student movement. As the involvement of the \"Eight Elders\" in Chinese politics steadily declined, Jiang consolidated his hold on power to become the \"paramount leader\" in the country during the 1990s. Urged by Deng Xiaoping's southern tour in 1992, Jiang officially introduced the term \"socialist market economy\" in his speech during the 14th CCP National Congress held later that year, which accelerated \"opening up and reform\".\n\nUnder Jiang's leadership, China experienced substantial economic growth with the continuation of market reforms. The returning of Hong Kong from the United Kingdom in 1997 and of Macau from Portugal in 1999, and entry into the World Trade Organisation in 2001, were landmark moments of his era. China also witnessed improved relations with the outside world, while the Communist Party maintained its tight control over the state. Jiang faced criticism over human rights abuses, including the crackdown on the Falun Gong movement. His contributions to party doctrine, known as the \"Three Represents\", were written into the CCP constitution in 2002. Jiang gradually vacated his official leadership titles from 2002 to 2005, being succeeded in these roles by Hu Jintao, although he and his political faction continued to influence affairs until much later. On 30 November 2022, Jiang died from leukemia and multiple organ failure in Shanghai.\n Question: What was Jiang's previous position before becoming the president of China?", "output": "He was the mayor of Shanghai and then became Communist Party secretary"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Detective Hieronymus \"Harry\" Bosch is a fictional character created by American author Michael Connelly. Bosch debuted as the lead character in the 1992 novel The Black Echo, the first in a best-selling police procedural series now numbering 24 novels.\n\nThe novels are more or less coincident in timeframe with the year in which they were published. Harry, as he is commonly known by his associates, is a veteran police homicide detective with the Los Angeles Police Department. He was named after the 15th-century Dutch artist Hieronymus Bosch.\n\nTitus Welliver portrayed the title character from 2015 to 2021 in Bosch, a television series adapted from the novels, and from 2022 in its spin-off series Bosch: Legacy.\n Question: Which fictional LAPD detective is Titus Welliver known for playing?", "output": "Titus Welliver played Harry Bosch in the TV series Bosch and also in spin off Bosch:Legacy."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: On April 6, 2009 (starting with the 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time edition, which was anchored by Hannah Storm and Sage Steele), SportsCenter debuted a new graphics package that saw the \"rundown\" graphic \u2013 shown during the daytime editions \u2013 being shifted to the left side of the screen. On that same date, SportsCenter began producing its 1:00 a.m. Eastern Time edition of SportsCenter live from ESPN's production facilities in the newly constructed L.A. Live complex (just across from the Staples Center) in Los Angeles. The set is virtually identical to the setup at the main facilities in Bristol, and the late-night West Coast broadcast would be produced as simply another edition of the program. Neil Everett and Stan Verrett were appointed as the primary anchors for the Los Angeles-based editions of SportsCenter. A new BottomLine ticker was also unveiled that day on four of the five ESPN networks (ESPN, ESPN2, ESPN Classic and ESPNU); the redesigned ticker was quickly dropped, reverting to the old BottomLine design \u2013 which had been in use since April 2003 \u2013 due to an equipment failure (however, this ticker was operational for the 2009 NFL Draft and the 2009 NBA draft). After technical issues with the revamped BottomLine were fixed, the new BottomLine was reinstated on July 8.\n Question: Given this paragraph about ESPN's SportsCenter in 2009, in what west coast city did ESPN begin producing it's 1:00 a.m. Eastern Time edition of SportsCenter?", "output": "Los Angeles is the west coast city that ESPN began producing it's 1:00 a.m. Eastern Time edition of SportsCenter."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In June 1955, Gorbachev graduated with a distinction; his final paper had been on the advantages of \"socialist democracy\" (the Soviet political system) over \"bourgeois democracy\" (liberal democracy). He was subsequently assigned to the Soviet Procurator's office, which was then focusing on the rehabilitation of the innocent victims of Stalin's purges, but found that they had no work for him. He was then offered a place on an MSU graduate course specializing in kolkhoz law, but declined. He had wanted to remain in Moscow, where Raisa was enrolled in a PhD program, but instead gained employment in Stavropol; Raisa abandoned her studies to join him there.\n Question: Based on this passage, in what field did Raisa earn her PhD?", "output": "Based on this passage, Raisa did not earn a PhD. She abandoned her graduate studies in Moscow in order to join Gorbachev in Stavropol."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pearl Mill Village Historic District is a national historic district located at Durham, Durham County, North Carolina. The district encompasses 26 contributing residential buildings built by owners of Pearl Cotton Mills. The mill village dwellings are either two-story duplex type built about 1905 or a one-story bungalow constructed about 1924.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Pearl Mill Village Historic District, tell me where it is located.", "output": "The Pearl Mill Village Historic District is in Durham, North Carolina."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Major League Baseball (MLB) is a professional baseball organization and the oldest major professional sports league in the world.[B] MLB is composed of 30 teams, divided equally between the National League (NL) and the American League (AL), with 29 in the United States and 1 in Canada. Formed in 1876 and 1901 respectively, the NL and AL cemented their cooperation with the National Agreement in 1903. They remained legally separate entities until 2000, when they merged into a single organization led by the Commissioner of Baseball. MLB is headquartered in Midtown Manhattan. It is considered one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada. \n\nEach team plays 162 games per season, and six teams in each league advance to a four-round postseason tournament that culminates in the World Series, a best-of-seven championship series between the two league champions first played in 1903. The New York Yankees have the most championships: 27. The reigning champions are the Houston Astros, who defeated the Philadelphia Phillies, 4\u20132, in the 2022 World Series.\n Question: Given this text about Major League Baseball, how many games do teams play in the regular season and how many games are played in the World Series.", "output": "Each team will play 162 games per regular season, with the two top teams playing a best of seven in the World Series Championship."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Belize, formerly known as British Honduras, is a Caribbean country located on the northeastern coast of Central America. Belize is bordered on the northwest by Mexico, on the east by the Caribbean Sea, and on the south and west by Guatemala. It has an area of 22,970 square kilometres (8,867 sq mi) and a population of 408,487 (2019). Its mainland is about 290 km (180 mi) long and 110 km (68 mi) wide. It has the lowest population and population density in Central America.\n Question: Given this short paragraph about Belize, how many people live there and what is notable about its population density?", "output": "Belize has a population of 408,487 people and has the lowest population density in Central America."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Washington, officially the State of Washington and often referred to as Washington state to distinguish it from the USA's capital, Washington, D.C., is a state in the Pacific Northwest region of the Western United States. Named for George Washington\u2014the first U.S. president\u2014the state was formed from the western part of the Washington Territory, which was ceded by the British Empire in 1846, by the Oregon Treaty in the settlement of the Oregon boundary dispute. The state is bordered on the west by the Pacific Ocean, Oregon to the south, Idaho to the east, and the Canadian province of British Columbia to the north. It was admitted to the Union as the 42nd state in 1889. Olympia is the state capital; the state's largest city is Seattle.\n Question: How did Washington become a state?", "output": "Washington became the 42nd state of the United States of America in 1889. The United States Congress passed an act enabling the territories of Washington, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Montana to seek statehood."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Mazzy Star is an American alternative rock band formed in 1988 in Santa Monica, California, from remnants of the group Opal. Founding member David Roback's friend Hope Sandoval became the group's vocalist when Kendra Smith left Opal.\n\nMazzy Star is best known for the song \"\"Fade into You\"\", which brought the band some success in the mid-1990s and was the group's biggest mainstream hit, earning extensive exposure on MTV, VH1, and radio airplay. Roback and Sandoval were the creative center of the band, with Sandoval as lyricist and Roback as composer of the majority of the band's material until his death in Los Angeles on February 24, 2020, from metastatic cancer. Mazzy Star's founding drummer Keith Mitchell, originally part of Opal, died on May 14, 2017 from cancer.\"\n Question: Where was Mazzy Star formed?", "output": "Mazzy Star was formed in Santa Monica, California in 1988"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Rafael Nadal Parera (Catalan: [r\u0259f(\u0259)\u02c8\u025bl n\u0259\u02c8\u00f0al p\u0259\u02c8\u027ee\u027e\u0259], Spanish: [rafa\u02c8el na\u02c8\u00f0al pa\u02c8\u027ee\u027ea]; born 3 June 1986) is a Spanish professional tennis player. He is currently ranked world No. 14 in singles by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP). He has been ranked world No. 1 for 209 weeks, and has finished as the year-end No. 1 five times. He also holds the record for most consecutive weeks in the Top 10 of the ATP Rankings, having never left the Top 10 from April 2005 to March 2023, a total of 912 weeks. Nadal has won a joint-record 22 Grand Slam men's singles titles, including a record 14 French Open titles. He has won 92 ATP singles titles, including 36 Masters titles, with 63 of these on clay courts. Nadal is one of only two men to complete the Career Golden Slam in singles. His 81 consecutive wins on clay is the longest single-surface win streak in the Open Era.\n\nFor over a decade, Nadal has dominated men's tennis along with Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic as the Big Three, collectively considered by many to be the three greatest male tennis players of all time. At the start of his professional career, Nadal became one of the most successful teenagers in ATP Tour history, reaching the world No. 2 ranking and winning 16 titles before turning 20, including his first French Open and six Masters events. Nadal became the world No. 1 for the first time in 2008 after defeating Federer in a historic Wimbledon final, his first major victory off clay. He followed up his win with an Olympic singles gold at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. After defeating Djokovic in the 2010 US Open final, then-24-year-old Nadal became the youngest man in the Open Era to achieve the Career Grand Slam, and the first man to win majors on three different surfaces (hard, grass, and clay) in the same year (Surface Slam).\n\nAfter two injury-plagued seasons, Nadal made a stellar return in one of the greatest comeback seasons of all time in 2013; reaching 14 finals, winning two majors and five Masters events including the US Open Series sweep (Summer Slam). He continued his dominance at the French Open, securing six titles, two US Open titles, an Australian Open title, and an Olympic doubles gold at the 2016 Rio Olympics with Marc L\u00f3pez. Nadal surpassed his joint-record with Djokovic and Federer for the most major men's singles titles at the 2022 Australian Open, and became one of four men in history to complete the double Career Grand Slam in singles. He appeared in the Top 10 of the ATP rankings continuously from April 2005 to March 2023 \u2013 a record spanning 18 years.\n\nAs a vigorous left-handed player, one of Nadal's main strengths is his forehand, which he hits with extremely heavy topspin at difficult angles. He is one of the best at breaking serve, regularly appearing among the tour leaders in percentage of return games, return points, and break points won. Nadal has won the Stefan Edberg Sportsmanship Award five times, and was the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year in 2011 and 2021. He is also a recipient of the Grand Cross of the Order of Dos De Mayo, the Grand Cross of Naval Merit, and the Medal of the City of Paris. Representing Spain, he has won two Olympic gold medals, and led the nation to four Davis Cup titles. Nadal has also opened a tennis academy in Mallorca, and is an active philanthropist.\n Question: Given the reference text about Rafael Nadal, tell me how many singles grand slam titles he has won, which grand slam tournament he has won the most, and the main strength of his tennis game.", "output": "Rafael Nadal has won 22 singles grand slam titles. The majority of his grand slam wins have been at the French Open, where he has won 14 times.\n\nThe main strength of his tennis game is his forehand because of his ability to hit the ball with extremely heavy topspin at difficult angles."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Byte pair encoding (BPE) or digram coding is a simple and robust form of data compression in which the most common pair of contiguous bytes of data in a sequence are replaced with a byte that does not occur within the sequence. A lookup table of the replacements is required to rebuild the original data. The algorithm was first described publicly by Philip Gage in a February 1994 article \"A New Algorithm for Data Compression\" in the C Users Journal.\n\nA variant of the technique has shown to be useful in several natural language processing (NLP) domains, for applications such as tokenisation, as seen in Google's SentencePiece and OpenAI's GPT-3. Here, the goal is not data compression, but tokenisation of text in a given language to produce a variable sequence of terms from a fixed-size vocabulary of tokens. Typically, most words will be encoded as a single token, while rare words will be encoded as a sequence of a few tokens, where these tokens represent meaningful word parts. This translation of text into tokens can be found by variants of byte pair encoding, such as subword units.\n\nByte pair encoding lends itself to NLP tasks due to its simplicity and speed; BPE is suitably effective for the tokenisation of terms, does not require large computational overheads, and remains consistent, making it reliable.\n Question: here is a blurb about byte pair encoding for encryption, what benefits does this concept have besides compression?", "output": "An alternate use for byte pair encoding besides compression would be tokenization.  Tokenization can be used in Natural Language Processing to encode tokens of words for simplicity and speed in NLP tasks."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Fu\u00dfballclub Gelsenkirchen-Schalke 04 e. V., commonly known as FC Schalke 04 (German: [\u025bf tse\u02d0 \u02c8\u0283alk\u0259 n\u028al fi\u02d0\u0250\u032f] (listen)), Schalke 04 (German: [\u02cc\u0283alk\u0259 n\u028al \u02c8fi\u02d0\u0250\u032f] (listen)), or abbreviated as S04 (German: [\u02c8\u025bs n\u028al fi\u02d0\u0250\u032f] (listen)), is a professional German football and multi-sports club originally from the Schalke district of Gelsenkirchen, North Rhine-Westphalia. The \"04\" in the club's name derives from its formation in 1904. Schalke have been one of the most popular professional football teams in Germany, even though the club's heyday was in the 1930s and 1940s. Schalke have played in the Bundesliga, the top tier of the German football league system, since 2022, following promotion from the 2. Bundesliga in 2021\u201322. As of 2022, the club has 160,000 members, making it the second-largest football club in Germany and the fourth-largest club in the world in terms of membership. Other activities offered by the club include athletics, basketball, handball, table tennis, winter sports and eSports.\n Question: What is Schalke 04 famous for?", "output": "FC Schalke 04 (full name Fu\u00dfballclub Gelsenkirchen-Schalke 04 e. V. ) is a German football and multi-sports club that was founded in 1904 in Gelsenkirchen, North Rhine-Westphalia. The club won seven times the German Championship, five times the German Cup / DFB-Pokal and 1997 the UEFA-CUP, when it beat Inter Milan in the finals. The club receives from football fans all over the world renown for its youth academy, which constantly develops famous players. Benedikt H\u00f6wedes, Manuel Neuer and Mesut \u00d6zil, who won the World Cup with Germany in 2014, were formed in the Schalke 04 youth academy. Since 2011 the youth academy is called Knappenschmiede in reference to the mining industry that was very strong in the past in the area of Western Germany. A Knappe is a miner after completion of his apprenticeship."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 2011 Kathy Ryan, director of photography for The New York Times Magazine commissioned Prager to shoot 12, 1 minute films with some film actors from that year, inspired by \"cinematic villainy\". Prager won a News and Documentary Emmy Award for New Approaches to News & Documentary Programming: Arts, Lifestyle & Culture for her Touch of Evil short films.\n Question: What magazine was Alex Prager the director of Photography for?", "output": "Alex Prager was the director of photography for the New York Times Magazine."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Sun Also Rises is a 1926 novel by American writer Ernest Hemingway, his first, that portrays American and British expatriates who travel from Paris to the Festival of San Ferm\u00edn in Pamplona to watch the running of the bulls and the bullfights. An early modernist novel, it received mixed reviews upon publication. Hemingway biographer Jeffrey Meyers writes that it is now \"recognized as Hemingway's greatest work\" and Hemingway scholar Linda Wagner-Martin calls it his most important novel. The novel was published in the United States in October 1926 by Scribner's. A year later, Jonathan Cape published the novel in London under the title Fiesta. It remains in print.\n\nThe novel is a roman \u00e0 clef: the characters are based on people in Hemingway's circle and the action is based on events, particularly Hemingway's life in Paris in the 1920s and a trip to Spain in 1925 for the Pamplona festival and fishing in the Pyrenees. Hemingway presents his notion that the \"Lost Generation\"\u2014considered to have been decadent, dissolute and irretrievably damaged by World War I\u2014was in fact resilient and strong. Hemingway investigates the themes of love and death, the revivifying power of nature and the concept of masculinity. His spare writing style, combined with his restrained use of description to convey characterizations and action, demonstrates his \"Iceberg Theory\" of writing.\n Question: Given the reference text about The Sun Also Rises, when was the book written and who wrote it?", "output": "The Sun Also Rises was written in 1926 by Ernest Hemingway."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the 1960s, English county teams began playing a version of cricket with games of only one innings each and a maximum number of overs per innings. Starting in 1963 as a knockout competition only, limited-overs cricket grew in popularity and, in 1969, a national league was created which consequently caused a reduction in the number of matches in the County Championship. The status of limited overs matches is governed by the official List A categorisation. Although many \"traditional\" cricket fans objected to the shorter form of the game, limited-overs cricket did have the advantage of delivering a result to spectators within a single day; it did improve cricket's appeal to younger or busier people; and it did prove commercially successful.\n\nThe first limited-overs international match took place at Melbourne Cricket Ground in 1971 as a time-filler after a Test match had been abandoned because of heavy rain on the opening days. It was tried simply as an experiment and to give the players some exercise, but turned out to be immensely popular. limited-overs internationals (LOIs or ODIs\u2014one-day internationals) have since grown to become a massively popular form of the game, especially for busy people who want to be able to see a whole match. The International Cricket Council reacted to this development by organising the first Cricket World Cup in England in 1975, with all the Test-playing nations taking part.\n Question: Where did the first limited-overs cricket match take place?", "output": "Melbourne Cricket Ground"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Stansfeld began his career as a civil servant in HM Customs and Excise. In 1877, he moved to Oxford, and later matriculated as a student at Exeter College, where he studied Medicine, attaining his BA in 1889, MA in 1893 and qualified as a doctor in 1897. In 1897 he started the Oxford Medical Misson in Bermondsey, London, where he founded the Stansfeld Oxford & Bermondsey Club in the same year. In 1909, he decided to take Holy Orders and studied part-time at Wycliffe Hall, Oxford. He was appointed Vicar of St Anne's Church, Thoburn Square, Bermondsey in 1910, and then returned to Oxford in 1912 as Rector of St Ebbe's, Oxford then a slum district until his retirement in 1926. Stansfeld died at Spelsbury, Oxfordshire, aged 85 in December 1939. He campaigned successfully for the erection of a children's playground and public baths in St Ebbe's. His philanthropy is commemorated by a blue plaque in Paradise Square, unveiled in June 2009.\n Question: When was the Stansfeld's death", "output": "Stansfeld died at Spelsbury, Oxfordshire, aged 85 in December 1939"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Racial categories have historically been used as a way to enable an oppressive figure or group to discriminate against other groups or individuals which were seen as different from that of the oppressor. In nineteenth and early twentieth century Europe, artwork was a common form of racialization which targeted countries in the Middle East and Asia. The artwork, predominantly paintings, were portrayed in order to instill prejudice in the Western populations through sexualizing and manipulating images. One of the most prominent examples of Orientalist work in art is a piece by Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix titled Women of Algiers in their Apartment. Dating back to 1834, it portrays three women resting in a harem in exotic clothing while an African woman is dressed in plain clothing, depicting her role as a servant. Fine textiles, hookahs, and other paraphernalia adorn the room, which represents a European fantasy of an exotic scene. Attempts to portray these cultures as strange, foreign and exotic through Orientalism led to intolerance towards the Arab and Asian communities in Europe and the United States. Others argue that Delacroix, who travelled in North Africa sketching extensively, was depicting a realistic scene of the era based on his first-hand knowledge and experience. In such an interpretation the clothing, for example, is consistent with the times, as Arab North Africans dressed differently from Europeans, and kept black slaves who would not have been treated as equals.\n Question: How are racial categories used historically?", "output": "Historically, oppressive groups use racial categories to discriminate against other groups that are different from them."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ain Elzarga Wetland is a Ramsar-protected wetland of Libya. It was established in 2000 and covers an area of 33 hectares (82 acres). Ramsar says of it: \"A small natural sebkha or depression with at least one natural connection to the sea, wet all year round but with increasing water levels and salinity during summer. The sebkha, with mudflats and salt marsh community, is surrounded by dunes from east to west and rocky hills to the south and east. The site is one of the most important wetlands in the area of the El Kouf National Park for migratory waterbirds. The birdwatching and ecotourism potential is considerable but undeveloped. Unsustainable hunting and destruction of vegetation, especially during summer, are considered threats.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Ain Elzarga Wetland, why is this location one of the most important wetlands in the region?", "output": "The Ain Elzarga Wetland is an important wetland due to being the home for migratory waterbirds."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Basilica of Santa Maria della Sanit\u00e0 is a basilica church located over the Catacombs of San Gaudioso, on a Piazza near where Via Sanit\u00e0 meets Via Teresa degli Scalzi, in the Rione of the Sanit\u00e0, in Naples, Italy. The church is also called San Vincenzo or San Vincenzo della Sanit\u00e0, due to the cult of an icon of San Vincenzo Ferrer, also called locally O' Monacone (the big monk).\n Question: Given the reference text below, what is the official name of the church San Vincenzo?", "output": "The church called San Vincenzo is officially known as the Basilica of Santa Maria della Sanit\u00e0, located over the Catacombs of San Gaudioso."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Richmond enjoys an unprecedented five-game winning streak with Zava on the team, culminating in a win away at Old Trafford against Manchester United. Sam takes the team to celebrate at his yet-to-open Nigerian restaurant, Ola's. Ted is disturbed to learn that his ex-wife Michelle is dating their former couple's therapist, Dr. Jacob; both Sharon and Sassy validate his concern that it is an ethical violation. Jamie feels overshadowed by Zava's stardom; Roy offers to train him. Rebecca visits her mother's psychic Tish, who tells her she will one day be a mother; Rebecca angrily rebuffs Tish as a fraud, but is later stunned when Sam hands her one of the green matchbooks he is giving out to the team, in line with one of Tish's premonitions. Colin introduces his boyfriend Michael to the team as just a friend, but Trent spots them kissing in private while leaving the restaurant.\n Question: What caused the unprecedented five-game winning streak?", "output": "While we don't know exactly what caused the winning streak, it seems clear that a key part of the winning streak was related to Zava being on the team. We know that Jamie is overshadowed by Zava's stardom which tells us that Zava is a star, and we see that Zava was mentioned in relation to the winning streak. Therefore, we can guess that Zava joining the team helped the team to go on a five-game winning streak."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Howl's Moving Castle is a fantasy novel by British author Diana Wynne Jones, first published in 1986 by Greenwillow Books of New York. It was a runner-up for the annual Boston Globe\u2013Horn Book Award, and won the Phoenix Award twenty years later. It was adapted into a critically acclaimed 2004 animated film of the same name, which was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature.\n Question: Who wrote Howl's Moving Castle?", "output": "Howl's Moving Castle is a fantasy novel by British author Diana Wynne Jones."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Friedrich Rudolf Ludwig Freiherr von Canitz (27 November 1654 \u2013 11 August 1699) was a German poet and diplomat. He was one of the few German poets of his era that Frederick the Great enjoyed.\n\nBiography\nCanitz was born in Berlin, Brandenburg. He was influenced by Boileau.  He attended the universities of Leiden and Leipzig, travelled in England, France, Italy and the Netherlands, and on his return was appointed groom of the bedchamber (Kammerjunker) to Frederick William, Elector of Brandenburg, whom he accompanied on his campaigns in Pomerania and Sweden.\n\nIn 1680 Canitz became councillor of legation, and he was employed on various embassies. In 1697 Elector Frederick III made him a privy councillor, and Emperor Leopold I created him a baron of the Empire. Having fallen ill on an embassy to the Hague, he obtained his discharge and died at Berlin in 1699.\n\nHe wrote verse in a restrained, sober style.  He was considered as one of the poets who \u201cproduced verse that was specifically aimed at entertaining and flattering princes and high courtiers.\u201d Although he liked making verse in many languages, he never published any of them. Canitz's poems (Nebenstunden unterschiedener Gedichte), which did not appear until after his death (1700), are for the most part dry and stilted imitations of French and Latin models, but they formed a healthy contrast to the coarseness and bombast of the later Silesian poets.\n\nA complete edition of Canitz's poems was published by U. K\u00f6nig in 1727; see also L. Fulda, Die Gegner der zweiten schlesischen Schule, ii. (1883).\n Question: Given a reference text about Friedrich Rudolf Ludwig Freiherr von Canitz, when and where was he born?", "output": "Friedrich Rudolf Ludwig Freiherr von Canitz was born in Berlin on November 27, 1654."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The OA class is a solitary steam locomotive built by the Baldwin Locomotive Works for the Wellington and Manawatu Railway (WMR) in New Zealand. Ordered in 1894, it entered service in August of that year as No. 13 and was the first narrow gauge Vauclain compound in the world. In 1908, the WMR and its locomotive fleet were purchased by New Zealand Railways Department (NZR) and incorporated into the national rail network, and, although No. 13 bore a likeness to members of the O class, it was sufficiently different that it warranted separate classification. The designation of OA was created and it was numbered OA 457. It operated for another two decades until it was withdrawn in December 1929 in Auckland. The locomotive was known to WMR staff as \"The Lady\".\n Question: What class of locomotive was the No. 13?", "output": "The No. 13 locomotive was an OA class."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Realpolitik (German: [\u0281e\u02c8a\u02d0lpoli\u02ccti\u02d0k]; from German real 'realistic, practical, actual', and Politik 'politics') is the approach of conducting diplomatic or political policies based primarily on considerations of given circumstances and factors, rather than strictly following explicit ideological notions or moral and ethical premises. In this respect, it shares aspects of its philosophical approach with those of realism and pragmatism. It is often simply referred to as pragmatism in politics, e.g. \"pursuing pragmatic policies\" or \"realistic policies\".\n Question: Is Realpolitik diplomacy strategy based on pragmatism or idealism?", "output": "Pragmatism"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Gandhi had dropped out of the cheapest college he could afford in Bombay. Mavji Dave Joshiji, a Brahmin priest and family friend, advised Gandhi and his family that he should consider law studies in London. In July 1888, his wife Kasturba gave birth to their first surviving son, Harilal. His mother was not comfortable about Gandhi leaving his wife and family, and going so far from home. Gandhi's uncle Tulsidas also tried to dissuade his nephew. Gandhi wanted to go. To persuade his wife and mother, Gandhi made a vow in front of his mother that he would abstain from meat, alcohol and women. Gandhi's brother Laxmidas, who was already a lawyer, cheered Gandhi's London studies plan and offered to support him. Putlibai gave Gandhi her permission and blessing.\n\nOn 10 August 1888, Gandhi aged 18, left Porbandar for Mumbai, then known as Bombay. Upon arrival, he stayed with the local Modh Bania community whose elders warned him that England would tempt him to compromise his religion, and eat and drink in Western ways. Despite Gandhi informing them of his promise to his mother and her blessings, he was excommunicated from his caste. Gandhi ignored this, and on 4 September, he sailed from Bombay to London, with his brother seeing him off. Gandhi attended University College, London, where he took classes in English literature with Henry Morley in 1888\u20131889.\n\nHe also enrolled at Inner Temple with the intention of becoming a barrister. His childhood shyness and self-withdrawal had continued through his teens. He retained these traits when he arrived in London, but joined a public speaking practice group and overcame his shyness sufficiently to practise law\n Question: Given this paragraph about Mahatma Gandhi, can you tell me why did he go to London?", "output": "Gandhi travelled to London in the late 1880s to study law. He first took English literature classes and then enrolled in Inner Temple with the intention to become a barrister."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Borneo was launched in 1713 on the River Thames and made two voyages for the British East India Company (EIC) to Banjarmasin, Bencoolen, and Borneo. She then became a West Indiaman.\n\nEIC voyage #1 (1713\u20131716): Captain Thomas Lewis sailed from The Downs on 2 October 1713, bound for Banjarmasin and Bencoolen. Borneo was at the Cape of Good Hope on 30 January 1714 and reached Batavia on 7 May. She was at Banjarmasin on 1 July and Bencoolen on 26 December. She was then at Bantal on 23 January 1715 before returning to Bencoolen on 9 February. She returned to Bantal on 4 March and Bencoolen on 29 March. She then was at Batavia on 13 June and Bencoolen yet again on 24 August. She stopped at Madras on 21 February 1716, and visited Bencoolen for the last time on 30 May. Her voyage ended on 1 August 1717.\n Question: Given the below text, how many days did it take for Captain Lewis to sail the Borneo from Banjarmasin to Madras? Explain how you did this calculation", "output": "It took 600 days. The Borneo was in Banjarmasin on July 1st 1714, and then arrived in Madras on February 21st 1716. There are 600 days between these dates."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Multiomics, multi-omics, integrative omics, \"panomics\" or \"pan-omics\" is a biological analysis approach in which the data sets are multiple \"omes\", such as the genome, proteome, transcriptome, epigenome, metabolome, and microbiome (i.e., a meta-genome and/or meta-transcriptome, depending upon how it is sequenced); in other words, the use of multiple omics technologies to study life in a concerted way. By combining these \"omes\", scientists can analyze complex biological big data to find novel associations between biological entities, pinpoint relevant biomarkers and build elaborate markers of disease and physiology. In doing so, multiomics integrates diverse omics data to find a coherently matching geno-pheno-envirotype relationship or association. The OmicTools service lists more than 99 softwares related to multiomic data analysis, as well as more than 99 databases on the topic.\n\nSystems biology approaches are often based upon the use of panomic analysis data. The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) defines panomics as referring to \"the interaction of all biological functions within a cell and with other body functions, combining data collected by targeted tests ... and global assays (such as genome sequencing) with other patient-specific information.\"\n\nSingle-cell multiomics\nA branch of the field of multiomics is the analysis of multilevel single-cell data, called single-cell multiomics. This approach gives us an unprecedent resolution to look at multilevel transitions in health and disease at the single cell level. An advantage in relation to bulk analysis is to mitigate confounding factors derived from cell to cell variation, allowing the uncovering of heterogeneous tissue architectures.\n\nMethods for parallel single-cell genomic and transcriptomic analysis can be based on simultaneous amplification or physical separation of RNA and genomic DNA. They allow insights that cannot be gathered solely from transcriptomic analysis, as RNA data do not contain non-coding genomic regions and information regarding copy-number variation, for example. An extension of this methodology is the integration of single-cell transcriptomes to single-cell methylomes, combining single-cell bisulfite sequencing to single cell RNA-Seq. Other techniques to query the epigenome, as single-cell ATAC-Seq and single-cell Hi-C also exist.\n\nA different, but related, challenge is the integration of proteomic and transcriptomic data. One approach to perform such measurement is to physically separate single-cell lysates in two, processing half for RNA, and half for proteins. The protein content of lysates can be measured by proximity extension assays (PEA), for example, which use DNA-barcoded antibodies. A different approach uses a combination of heavy-metal RNA probes and protein antibodies to adapt mass cytometry for multiomic analysis.\n\nMultiomics and machine learning\nIn parallel to the advances in highthroughput biology, machine learning applications to biomedical data analysis are flourishing. The integration of multi-omics data analysis and machine learning has led to the discovery of new biomarkers. For example, one of the methods of the mixOmics project implements a method based on sparse Partial Least Squares regression for selection of features (putative biomarkers).\n\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiomics\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Multiomics, what is a typical advantage of single-cell multiomics versus bulk analysis?", "output": "An advantage of single-cell multiomics in relation to bulk analysis is to mitigate confounding factors derived from cell to cell variation, allowing the uncovering of heterogeneous tissue architectures."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The rules of chess (also known as the laws of chess) govern the play of the game of chess. Chess is a two-player abstract strategy board game. Each player controls sixteen pieces of six types on a chessboard. Each type of piece moves in a distinct way. The object of the game is to checkmate (threaten with inescapable capture) the opponent's king. A game can end in various ways besides checkmate: a player can resign, and there are several ways a game can end in a draw.\n\nWhile the exact origins of chess are unclear, modern rules first took form during the Middle Ages. The rules continued to be slightly modified until the early 19th century, when they reached essentially their current form. The rules also varied somewhat from region to region. Today, the standard rules are set by FIDE (F\u00e9d\u00e9ration Internationale des \u00c9checs), the international governing body for chess. Slight modifications are made by some national organizations for their own purposes. There are variations of the rules for fast chess, correspondence chess, online chess, and Chess960.\n\nBesides the basic moves of the pieces, rules also govern the equipment used, time control, conduct and ethics of players, accommodations for physically challenged players, and recording of moves using chess notation. Procedures for resolving irregularities that can occur during a game are provided as well.\n Question: How to play chess", "output": "To win the game of chess, a player must capture the opponent's king. This is known as \"Checkmating\" the king."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The dead man zone is the area directly around a bushfire that is likely to burn within five minutes given the current wind conditions or an anticipated change in wind direction. The distance this zone extends from the firefront is highly dependent on terrain, windspeed, fuel type and composition, relative humidity and ambient temperature, and can range from under 100 metres (330 ft) to well over 1 kilometre (3,300 ft).\n Question: Given this article, what is the largest size for a dead man zone?", "output": "The largest size for a dead man zone is 1 kilometre"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Industrial Light & Magic (ILM) is an American motion picture visual effects company that was founded on May 26, 1975 by George Lucas. It is a division of the film production company Lucasfilm, which Lucas founded, and was created when he began production on the original Star Wars, now the fourth episode of the Skywalker Saga.\n\nILM originated in Van Nuys, California, then later moved to San Rafael in 1978, and since 2005 it has been based at the Letterman Digital Arts Center in the Presidio of San Francisco. In 2012, The Walt Disney Company acquired ILM as part of its purchase of Lucasfilm.\n Question: Who are Industrial Light and Magic?", "output": "Industrial Light and Magic are one of the biggest and most innovative VFX (Visual Effects) and CGI (Computer generated imagery) firms. The company was started by George Lucas.and was acquired by Disney. They have contributed Visual special effects for over 300 films including the Star Wars series, Indiana Jones series and the Jurassic Park series."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Martin Edward Connor (born March 3, 1945) is a former member of the New York State Senate from Brooklyn, New York. He was first elected to the State Senate in a special election in 1978. He is a Democrat. The 25th Senate District that he represented covers lower Manhattan and an area of Brooklyn down the East River from part of Greenpoint to Carroll Gardens, and eastward to part of Downtown Brooklyn. He lost the 2008 Democratic primary to challenger Dan Squadron.\n Question: Who won the 2008 Democratic primary that Martin Connor competed in?", "output": "Dan Squadron won the 2008 Democratic primary over Martin Connor."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Stefan Richarz (25 November 1874 \u2013 13 July 1934) was a German priest, missionary and geologist.\n\nRicharz was born in Richrath near Cologne, Germany in 1874. He joined the Divine Word Missionaries in 1893 at Steyl, Netherlands. He studied theology in the school of the order Sankt Gabriel in Maria Enzersdorf near M\u00f6dling and received his ordination to the priesthood in 1901. Richarz studied geology, paleontology, petrology and chemistry at the University of Vienna and later mineralogy, philosophy and geology at the University of Munich. He received his phD for work with Ernst Weinschenk and Ernst Freiherr Stromer von Reichenbach in 1919 from the University of Munich on basalts from a quarry near Groschlattengr\u00fcn.\n\nIn the following years he taught geology and astronomy at the school of the order Sankt Gabriel. In 1921 he changed to the school of the Divine Word Missionaries in Techny, Illinois where he lectured on geology, chemistry, mathematics and astronomy. In 1933 Richarz became dean of the science department of the Catholic University of Peking. In his first year, he went on a geological field trip to Mengyin County, South Shantung, China where he died 13. July, 1934.\n Question: How old was Stefan Richarz when he received his phD?", "output": "Stefan was 45 years old in 1919 when he received his phD from University of Munich, given he was born in 1874."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Etlingera diepenhorstii is a monocotyledonous plant species that was first described by Johannes Elias Teijsmann and Simon Binnendijk, and given its current name by Rosemary Margaret Smith. Etlingera diepenhorstii is part of the genus Etlingera and the family Zingiberaceae.\n\nThe species' range is in Sumatra. No subspecies are listed in the Catalog of Life.\n Question: Do you know the species Etlingera diepenhorstii", "output": "Yes, I do. The Etlingera diepenhorstii is a monocotyledonous plant species that was first described by Johannes Elias Teijsmann and Simon Binnendijk, and given its current name by Rosemary Margaret Smith. Etlingera diepenhorstii is part of the genus Etlingera and the family Zingiberaceae.\n\nThe species' range is in Sumatra. No subspecies are listed in the Catalog of Life."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pamulaparthi Venkata Narasimha Rao (28 June 1921 \u2013 23 December 2004), popularly known as P. V. Narasimha Rao, was an Indian lawyer, statesman and politician who served as the 9th prime minister of India from 1991 to 1996. He is known for introducing various liberal reforms to India's economy. His ascendancy to the prime ministership was politically significant because he was the second holder of this office from a non-Hindi-speaking region and the first from South India (United Andhra Pradesh). He led an important administration, overseeing a major economic transformation and several home incidents affecting national security of India. Rao, who held the Industries portfolio, was personally responsible for the dismantling of the Licence Raj, as this came under the purview of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, reversing the economic policies of Rajiv Gandhi's government\n Question: Given a reference text about Former Indian Prime Minister Shri P.V Narasimha Rao, tell me when they were born, when they were Prime Minister and their most significant accomplishments in office", "output": "Shir P.V. Narsimha Rao was born 28 June 1921 and was the 9th Prime Minister of India from 1991 to 1996. His most significant accomplishment was the major shift of the Indian Economy from one governed by fiscally conservative socialistic and protectionist policies (\"License Raj\") to a more liberal free market enterprise with lesser regulations and protectionism.\n\nOn the demographic front, Rao's ascendancy is significant because he was the first Prime Minister from South India and the second from non-Hindi speaking region."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Dunkirk is a residential area of Nottingham, England which is located to the south-east of the University of Nottingham and the Queen's Medical Centre. It is in the electoral ward of 'Dunkirk and Lenton', part of the Nottingham South constituency, with a population of 10,920 in the 2011 census.\n\nWhile home to many permanent residents of Nottingham, the area also houses numerous students, including many international students, mainly from east and south-east Asia. The area has become increasingly popular in the last decade due to its proximity to the university.\n\nDunkirk has a nursery, primary school and the Nottingham University Academy of Science and Technology; socially, there is the Old Lenton and Dunkirk Community Centre.\n\nDunkirk also has a small industrial area, next to the Nottingham Canal. Nottingham Science and Technology Park, Nottingham Science Park, is also located in Dunkirk.\n\nThere is a large cinema and entertainment centre across the canal from Dunkirk, adjacent to Clifton Boulevard (A52 road).\n Question: Given a reference text about Dunkirk, tell me what schools are located in the area.", "output": "A nursery school, primary school, and the Nottingham University Academy of Science and Technology are located in Dunkirk."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lysergic acid diethylamide, commonly known as LSD (from German Lysergs\u00e4ure-diethylamid), also known colloquially as acid, is a potent psychedelic drug. Effects typically include intensified thoughts, emotions, and sensory perception. At sufficiently high dosages LSD manifests primarily mental, visual, as well as auditory, hallucinations. Dilated pupils, increased blood pressure, and increased body temperature are typical. Effects typically begin within half an hour and can last for up to 20 hours. LSD is also capable of causing mystical experiences and ego dissolution. It is used mainly as a recreational drug or for spiritual reasons. LSD is both the prototypical psychedelic and one of the \"classical\" psychedelics, being the psychedelics with the greatest scientific and cultural significance. LSD is typically either swallowed or held under the tongue.\n Question: What is the colloquial term for LSD?", "output": "Lysergic acid diethylamide is commonly known as LSD or acid"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pingala (c. 3rd/2nd century BC), a Sanskrit prosody scholar, used binary numbers in the form of short and long syllables (the latter equal in length to two short syllables), a notation similar to Morse code. Pingala used the Sanskrit word \u015b\u016bnya explicitly to refer to zero.\n\nThe concept of zero as a written digit in the decimal place value notation was developed in India. A symbol for zero, a large dot likely to be the precursor of the still-current hollow symbol, is used throughout the Bakhshali manuscript, a practical manual on arithmetic for merchants. In 2017, three samples from the manuscript were shown by radiocarbon dating to come from three different centuries: from AD 224\u2013383, AD 680\u2013779, and AD 885\u2013993, making it South Asia's oldest recorded use of the zero symbol. It is not known how the birch bark fragments from different centuries forming the manuscript came to be packaged together.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the origin of zero, in which century did it first make an appearance in India?", "output": "In the 3rd/2nd century BC, by Pingala, for the first time in India, as \"Sunya\" in Sanskrit."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Founded in 1902 as Madrid Football Club, the club has traditionally worn a white home kit since its inception. The honorific title real is Spanish for \"royal\" and was bestowed to the club by King Alfonso XIII in 1920 together with the royal crown in the emblem. Real Madrid have played their home matches in the 81,044-capacity Santiago Bernab\u00e9u Stadium in downtown Madrid since 1947. Unlike most European sporting entities, Real Madrid's members (socios) have owned and operated the club throughout its history. The club is one of the most widely supported in the world, and was estimated to be worth $5.1 billion in 2022, making it the world's most valuable football team. In 2021, it was the second highest-earning football club in the world, with an annual revenue of \u20ac640.7 million.\n Question: Given a reference text about the history of Real Madrid Football Club, tell me the year it was founded and the name of its current stadium.", "output": "Real Madrid was founded in 1902 as Madrid Football Club. Its current stadium, where they play their home matches, is Santiago Bernabeu Stadium."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Riot Games' founders Brandon \"Ryze\" Beck and Marc \"Tryndamere\" Merrill became friends while roommates at the University of Southern California, where the two studied business. Beck and Merrill believed too many video game developers diverted their focus from game to game too often, distinguishing Defense of the Ancients as an indication that games could be supported and monetized long-term. They also drew inspiration from Asian video game designers who released their games for no up-front cost and instead charged for additional perks.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Riot Games' history, which game was used an indication that games could be supported and monetized long-term?", "output": "Defense of the Ancients (DotA)"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Twitter was created by Jack Dorsey, Noah Glass, Biz Stone, and Evan Williams in March 2006 and launched in July of that year. Twitter, Inc. is based in San Francisco, California and has more than 25 offices around the world. By 2012, more than 100 million users tweeted 340 million tweets a day, and the service handled an average of 1.6 billion search queries per day. In 2013, it was one of the ten most-visited websites and has been described as \"the SMS of the Internet\". By the start of 2019, Twitter had more than 330 million monthly active users. In practice, the vast majority of tweets are tweeted by a minority of users. In 2020, it was estimated that approximately 48 million accounts (15% of all accounts) were fake.\n Question: Given a reference text about twitter, how many accounts were estimated to be fake?", "output": "In 2020, about 48 million accounts were estimated to be fake."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jon Rahm Rodr\u00edguez (born 10 November 1994) is a Spanish professional golfer. He was the number one golfer in the World Amateur Golf Ranking for a record 60 weeks and later became world number one in the Official World Golf Ranking, first achieving that rank after winning the Memorial Tournament in July 2020. In June 2021, Rahm became the first Spanish golfer to win the U.S. Open. In 2023, he won the Masters Tournament, for his second major championship.\n Question: Where is Jon Rahm from?", "output": "Spain"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The New JEWEL Movement (NJM) was formally established on 11 March 1973 as an alliance of the Joint Endeavor for Welfare, Education, and Liberation (JEWEL), Organization for Revolutionary Education and Liberation, and the Movement for Assemblies of the People (MAP), led by young lawyer Maurice Bishop. The NJM's initial manifesto was largely drafted by MAP's major intellectual, Franklyn Harvey, who had been heavily influenced by the writings of C.L.R. James. From 1973 to 1979, the NJM was an opposition political party active in Grenada. During the 1970s, the political situation in Grenada became increasingly polarized and violent. For the 1976 general elections the organisation formed an electoral coalition known as the People's Alliance with the Grenada National Party and the United People's Party. However, the alliance lost to the ruling Grenada United Labour Party in elections which were branded fraudulent by international observers. In the late 1970s, the NJM formed the National Liberation Army (NLA), also known as \"the 12 Apostles\".\n Question: Based on this information given, what groups combined to create the New JEWEL Movement, and on what date were they organized by which leader?", "output": "On March 11th 1973, Maurice Bishop brought together the Joint Endeavor for Welfare, Education, and Liberation (JEWEL), Organization for Revolutionary Education and Liberation, and the Movement for Assemblies of the People to form the New JEWEL Movement."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Outcomes from Project Vesta have been integrated into firefighter training in Australia and are beginning to appear in the United States.\n\nFirefighters try to stay out of the dead man zone at all times, working from safe points such as burnt ground or a large area of non-burnable ground, such as a cricket or Australian rules football oval, or a large car park. This is achieved by attacking the fire from the flanks, or the rear, so that burnt ground is always nearby, and the fire is always in front of the firefighters. This avoids two disadvantages of attacking fires at the head of the fire where spot fires may start behind them or changes in wind behavior might accelerate the spread of the fire.\n\nThe result of several inquiries into firefighter death in Australian bushfires found that firefighters should stay out of the dead man zone and that they should always keep 250 liters of water in their truck for personal safety. This is now a standard operating procedure in the NSW Rural Fire Service, Country Fire Service and Country Fire Authority in Australia.\n Question: Based on this article, what countries have implemented the use of a dead man zone?", "output": "Australia and the United States have used the dead man zone from Project Vesta"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: West High School is a public high school located on the west side of Columbus, Ohio, in the Westgate neighborhood in the Hilltop area. It is a part of Columbus City Schools.\n\nHistory\nDue to overcrowding at Central High School in 1890s, a section of students split and were moved to another location, setting the foundation for what would become three new schools, including West High School.\n\nDesigned by the first architect of Columbus schools, David Riebel, the Neo-Classical Revival style building was constructed in 1908 and opened in 1909 on South Central Avenue. The building became Starling Middle School when the new West High School opened. The new West High School opened in 1929. It was designed by prominent Ohio architect Howard Dwight Smith who also designed Ohio Stadium.\n\nWest High School continues today at its current location at 179 South Powell Avenue. In August 2016, the cupola was removed because it was deemed unstable and a new cupola was installed and celebrated with a lighting ceremony in 2018.\n\nThe school colors are buff and brown. The school nickname is the Cowboys.\n Question: What's West High School located?", "output": "The West High School is located on the west side of Columbus, Ohio, more specifically on 179 South Powell Avenue."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Putlacheruvu is a village in the Mandavalli Mandal, Krishna district, Andhra Pradesh state, India. According to the 2011 census it has a population of 1873 living in 583 households.\n\nGeography\nThe village of Putlacheruvu is 6 km from Kolleru Lake and consists of three areas: Krishnapuram, Ramapuram, and Putlacheruvu proper. It features a 7.5 acre freshwater lake with a Naandi Foundation water treatment plant (which is a small failure )and a 12-foot tall statue of Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy at the south end of the lake. There are three large canals off the Krishna river on both ends of the village. One of these is used for drinking water and the other two are sewage canals used for pumping water into the fish tanks. The soil is very rich and suitable for many crops including rice and coconut. The local wildlife includes parrots, sparrows, minas, and black crows. In the evenings and early mornings, snake birds form in large migrations.\n Question: Given a reference text about Putlacheruvu, how many canals are there and what are they used for?", "output": "There are three canals in Putlacheruvu. One is used for drinking water and the other two are sewage canals used for pumping water into the fish tanks."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Woods was born on December 30, 1975, in Cypress, California, to Earl and Kultida \"Tida\" Woods. He is their only child, though he has two half-brothers and a half-sister from his father's first marriage. Earl was a retired U.S. Army officer and Vietnam War veteran; he was born to African-American parents and was also said to have had European, Native American, and possibly Chinese ancestry. Kultida (n\u00e9e Punsawad) is originally from Thailand, where Earl met her when he was on a tour of duty there in 1968. She is of mixed Thai, Chinese, and Dutch ancestry. In 2002, ESPN claimed: \"For the record, he is one-quarter Thai, one-quarter Chinese, one-quarter Caucasian, one-eighth African American and one-eighth Native American.\" Tiger has described his ethnic make-up as \"Cablinasian\" (a syllabic abbreviation he coined from Caucasian, Black, American Indian, and Asian).\n\nWoods's first name, Eldrick, was chosen by his mother because it began with \"E\" (for Earl) and ended with \"K\" (for Kultida). His middle name Tont is a traditional Thai name. He was nicknamed Tiger in honor of his father's friend, South Vietnamese Colonel Vuong Dang Phong, who had also been known as Tiger.\n\nWoods has a niece, Cheyenne Woods, who played for the Wake Forest University golf team and turned professional in 2012 when she made her pro debut in the LPGA Championship.[\n Question: Given a reference text about Tiger Woods, tell me when they were born, what their real first name is, and what profession his niece has.", "output": "Tiger Woods was borh on December 30, 1975. His real first name is \"Eldrick\". His niece, Cheyenne Woods, is a professional golfer."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Matong /m\u0259\u02c8t\u0252\u014b/ is a town in the central east part of the Riverina region of New South Wales, Australia. The town is 37 kilometres (23 mi) east of Narrandera and 26 kilometres (16 mi) west of Coolamon. At the 2016 census, Matong had a population of 164 people.\n\nSport\nThe most popular sport in Matong is Australian rules football, as it lies in the narrow 'canola belt', a geographical triangle stretching from the Grong Grong and Marrar at either end of the Canola Way, to Ungarie, in which Australian football retains a strong following, despite New South Wales being a largely rugby league supporting state.\n Question: What is Matong", "output": "Matong is a town in the central east part of the Riverina region of New South Wales, Australia. The town is 37 kilometres (23 mi) east of Narrandera and 26 kilometres (16 mi) west of Coolamon. At the 2016 census, Matong had a population of 164 people.\n\nSport\nThe most popular sport in Matong is Australian rules football, as it lies in the narrow 'canola belt', a geographical triangle stretching from the Grong Grong and Marrar at either end of the Canola Way, to Ungarie, in which Australian football retains a strong following, despite New South Wales being a largely rugby league supporting state."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Everything Everywhere All At Once is the most awarded film of all time. The film received a leading 11 nominations at the 95th Academy Awards, and won a leading seven awards: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actress (Yeoh), Best Supporting Actor (Quan), Best Supporting Actress (Curtis), Best Original Screenplay, and Best Film Editing,. It also won two Golden Globe Awards, five Critics' Choice Awards (including Best Picture), one BAFTA Award, a record four SAG Awards (including Best Ensemble), a record seven Independent Spirit Awards (including Best Feature), and swept the four major guild awards (DGA, PGA, SAG, and WGA).\n Question: Given this paragraph, in which categories did Everything Everywhere All At Once win an Oscar and how many Academy Awards did the film win in total?", "output": "Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actress,  Best Supporting Actor, Best Supporting Actress, Best Original Screenplay, and Best Film Editing. The film won 7 Oscars."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Nnedimma Nkemdili Okorafor was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, in 1974 to Igbo Nigerian parents who travelled to America in 1969 to attend school but purportedly could not return to Nigeria due to the Nigerian Civil War. Okorafor is the third child in a family of four children and grew up in Chicago, Illinois, and would often travel to Nigeria to spend her holidays with her extended family. Her first name is Igbo for \"mother is good\".\n Question: Is Nnedi Okorafor an American?", "output": "Yes, Nnedi Okorafor is an America, of Nigerian origin."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Romain Iannetta (born 27 November 1979 in Villecresnes) is a French racing driver who last competed in the GT4 European Series, driving the No. 77 Audi R8 LMS GT4 Evo for Full Motorsport. He also competes part-time in the NASCAR Whelen Euro Series as the driver of the No. 46 Chevrolet Camaro for Marko Stipp Motorsport in the EuroNASCAR PRO class.\n\nHe is the nephew of driver Alain Iannetta who participated in 24 Hours of Le Mans three times (1988, 1989 and 1990).\n\nIn parallel to his passion, Romain is an instructor at the flight school PRO'PULSION (Dreux and Issoire) and driving Ferrari 360 Modena for JMB Racing. He also worked for many auto manufacturers at the launch of new vehicles on the market (Volkswagen, Audi, Citro\u00ebn, Renault, Alfa Romeo...).\n\nIt began in 2000 in the trade of automotive stunt team CINE CASCADE directed by Jean-Claude Lagnes. It revolves mainly around feature films such as: Le Boulet, Ripoux 3, San Antonio, Hush!, Taxi, 36 Quai des Orf\u00e8vres, The Bourne Identity and The Mental Love your father.\n\nHe was awarded the World Stunt Awards in the United States for the best sequence on a vehicle for the year 2003 for the film \"The Bourne Identity\".\n Question: Who is Romain Iannetta", "output": "Romain Iannetta (born 27 November 1979 in Villecresnes) is a French racing driver who last competed in the GT4 European Series, driving the No. 77 Audi R8 LMS GT4 Evo for Full Motorsport. He also competes part-time in the NASCAR Whelen Euro Series as the driver of the No. 46 Chevrolet Camaro for Marko Stipp Motorsport in the EuroNASCAR PRO class.\n\nHe is the nephew of driver Alain Iannetta who participated in 24 Hours of Le Mans three times (1988, 1989 and 1990).\n\nIn parallel to his passion, Romain is an instructor at the flight school PRO'PULSION (Dreux and Issoire) and driving Ferrari 360 Modena for JMB Racing. He also worked for many auto manufacturers at the launch of new vehicles on the market (Volkswagen, Audi, Citroen, Renault, Alfa Romeo...).\n\nIt began in 2000 in the trade of automotive stunt team CINE CASCADE directed by Jean-Claude Lagnes. It revolves mainly around feature films such as: Le Boulet, Ripoux 3, San Antonio, Hush!, Taxi, 36 Quai des Orf\u00e8vres, The Bourne Identity and The Mental Love your father.\n\nHe was awarded the World Stunt Awards in the United States for the best sequence on a vehicle for the year 2003 for the film The Bourne Identity."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Selena Marie Gomez was born on July 22, 1992, in Grand Prairie, Texas, to Ricardo Joel Gomez and Texas-born former stage actress Mandy Teefey. She was named after Tejano singer Selena Quintanilla, who died in 1995. Her father is of Mexican descent, while her mother, who was adopted, has Italian ancestry. Gomez's paternal grandparents emigrated to Texas from Monterrey in the 1970s. Of her heritage, Gomez has said she is \"a proud third-generation American-Mexican\" and \"My family does have quincea\u00f1eras, and we go to the communion church. We do everything that's Catholic, but we don't really have anything traditional except go to the park and have barbecues on Sundays after church.\" Gomez was fluent in Spanish until age seven. Her parents divorced when she was five years old, and she remained with her mother. Gomez has two younger half-sisters and a younger stepbrother: Gracie Elliot Teefey, through Mandy and her second husband, Brian Teefey, and Victoria \"Tori\" and Marcus Gomez, through Ricardo and his second wife, Sara. She earned her high-school diploma through homeschooling in May 2010.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Selena Gomez, how many siblings does she have?", "output": "Selena has 2 half-sisters and 1 stepbrother."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Grateful Dead was founded in the San Francisco Bay Area amid the rise of the counterculture of the 1960s. The founding members were Jerry Garcia (lead guitar, vocals), Bob Weir (rhythm guitar, vocals), Ron \"Pigpen\" McKernan (keyboards, harmonica, vocals), Phil Lesh (bass, vocals), and Bill Kreutzmann (drums). Members of the Grateful Dead, originally known as the Warlocks, had played together in various Bay Area ensembles, including the traditional jug band Mother McCree's Uptown Jug Champions. Lesh was the last member to join the Warlocks before they changed their name to the Grateful Dead; replacing Dana Morgan Jr., who had played bass for a few gigs. Drummer Mickey Hart and non-performing lyricist Robert Hunter joined in 1967. With the exception of McKernan, who died in 1973, and Hart, who took time off from 1971 to 1974, the core of the band stayed together for its entire 30-year history. The other official members of the band are Tom Constanten (keyboards; 1968\u20131970), John Perry Barlow (non-performing lyricist; 1971\u20131995), Keith Godchaux (keyboards, occasional vocals; 1971\u20131979), Donna Godchaux (vocals; 1972\u20131979), Brent Mydland (keyboards, vocals; 1979\u20131990), and Vince Welnick (keyboards, vocals; 1990\u20131995). Bruce Hornsby (accordion, piano, vocals) was a touring member from 1990 to 1992, as well as a guest with the band on occasion before and after the tours.\n Question: Given the paragraph about the Grateful Dead, tell me when they were founded, who were the original members, and what other members were in the group.", "output": "The Grateful Dead were founded in the 1960's as the Warlocks by Jerry Garcia, Bob Weir, Ron \"Pigpen\" McKernan, Phil Lesh and Bill Kreutzmann. Over the years, the band had many other members, including Tom Constanten, John Perry Barlow, Keith Godchaux, Donna Godchaux, Brent Mydland, Vince Welnick and Bruce Hornsby."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A glass ceiling is a metaphor usually applied to women, used to represent an invisible barrier that prevents a given demographic from rising beyond a certain level in a hierarchy. No matter how invisible the glass ceiling is expressed, it is actually a difficult obstacle to overcome. The metaphor was first used by feminists in reference to barriers in the careers of high-achieving women. It was coined by Marilyn Loden during a speech in 1978. In the United States, the concept is sometimes extended to refer to racial inequality in the United States. Minority women in white-majority countries often find the most difficulty in \"breaking the glass ceiling\" because they lie at the intersection of two historically marginalized groups: women and people of color. East Asian and East Asian American news outlets have coined the term \"bamboo ceiling\" to refer to the obstacles that all East Asian Americans face in advancing their careers. Similarly, a multitude of barriers that refugees and asylum seekers face in their search for meaningful employment is referred to as canvas ceiling.\n Question: Is the glass ceiling real?", "output": "While it is not real as a physical object, it is considered real metaphorically, as it represents an invisible barrier that hinder women from rising beyond a certain organizational or societal hierarchy."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pandora is a female Mexican singing trio. The trio was formed in 1981 under the name Trebol by sisters Isabel Lascurain and Mayte Lascurain and their cousin Fernanda Meade. The trio was renamed \"Pandora\" upon signing with EMI Records in 1984.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Pandora, what was the initial group name of Pandora musical group?", "output": "The original name of Pandora musical group was Trebol."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Toshiyuki can be written using different combinations of kanji characters. Here are some examples:\n\n\u654f\u5e78, \"agile, happiness\"\n\u654f\u884c, \"agile, go\"\n\u654f\u4e4b, \"agile, of\"\n\u654f\u5fd7, \"agile, determination\"\n\u654f\u606d, \"agile, respectful\"\n\u4fca\u5e78, \"talented, happiness\"\n\u4fca\u884c, \"talented, go\"\n\u4fca\u4e4b, \"talented, of\"\n\u4fca\u5fd7, \"talented, determination\"\n\u4fca\u606d, \"talented, respectful\"\n\u5229\u5e78, \"benefit, happiness\"\n\u5229\u884c, \"benefit, go\"\n\u5229\u4e4b, \"benefit, of\"\n\u5bff\u5e78, \"long life, happiness\"\n\u5bff\u884c, \"long life, go\"\n\u5bff\u4e4b, \"long life, of\"\n\u5e74\u5e78, \"year, happiness\"\n\u5e74\u884c, \"year, go\"\n\u5e74\u4e4b, \"year, of\"\nThe name can also be written in hiragana \u3068\u3057\u3086\u304d or katakana \u30c8\u30b7\u30e6\u30ad.\n Question: How is Toshiyuki written?", "output": "Toshiyuki can be written using different combinations of kanji characters."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The heart is a muscular organ in most animals. This organ pumps blood through the blood vessels of the circulatory system. The pumped blood carries oxygen and nutrients to the body, while carrying metabolic waste such as carbon dioxide to the lungs. In humans, the heart is approximately the size of a closed fist and is located between the lungs, in the middle compartment of the chest, called mediastinum .\n\nIn humans, other mammals, and birds, the heart is divided into four chambers: upper left and right atria and lower left and right ventricles. Commonly the right atrium and ventricle are referred together as the right heart and their left counterparts as the left heart. Fish, in contrast, have two chambers, an atrium and a ventricle, while most reptiles have three chambers. In a healthy heart blood flows one way through the heart due to heart valves, which prevent backflow. The heart is enclosed in a protective sac, the pericardium, which also contains a small amount of fluid. The wall of the heart is made up of three layers: epicardium, myocardium, and endocardium.\n Question: Given this passage about the human heart, tell me about the major structural features of the human heart as well as the primary purpose of the organ.", "output": "The major structural features of the human heart are its four chambers for pumping blood. The heart is commonly viewed as having a left side and a right side, with each side comprising two chambers -- an atrium and a ventricle. The four total chambers make up the organ's primary structural features. Together, they are responsible for maintaining blood flow throughout the body via the circulatory system. The heart is also responsible for moving waste products through the bloodstream to the organs that process them."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pompeii (/p\u0252m\u02c8pe\u026a(i)/, Latin: [p\u0254m\u02c8pei\u032f.i\u02d0]) was an ancient city located in what is now the comune of Pompei near Naples in the Campania region of Italy. Pompeii, along with Herculaneum and many villas in the surrounding area (e.g. at Boscoreale, Stabiae), was buried under 4 to 6 m (13 to 20 ft) of volcanic ash and pumice in the Eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 AD.\n Question: Where is Pompeii located?", "output": "The ancient city of Pompeii is located near Naples in the Campania region of Italy."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Gary C. Butler was the CEO and president of Automatic Data Processing. He held this position from August 2006 through November 2011, and had been with the company for 37 years. From 1990 to 1995, he served as Group President for ADP's Dealer Services Group; and from 1995 to 1998 he served in the same capacity for ADP's Employer Services Group. Prior to assuming his role as CEO in 2006, Butler was President and Chief Operating Officer of the company.\n Question: What did Gary C. Butler do?", "output": "Gary C. Butler was the CEO and president of Automatic Data Processing."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A glass ceiling is a metaphor usually applied to women, used to represent an invisible barrier that prevents a given demographic from rising beyond a certain level in a hierarchy. No matter how invisible the glass ceiling is expressed, it is actually a difficult obstacle to overcome. The metaphor was first used by feminists in reference to barriers in the careers of high-achieving women. It was coined by Marilyn Loden during a speech in 1978. In the United States, the concept is sometimes extended to refer to racial inequality in the United States. Minority women in white-majority countries often find the most difficulty in \"breaking the glass ceiling\" because they lie at the intersection of two historically marginalized groups: women and people of color. East Asian and East Asian American news outlets have coined the term \"bamboo ceiling\" to refer to the obstacles that all East Asian Americans face in advancing their careers. Similarly, a multitude of barriers that refugees and asylum seekers face in their search for meaningful employment is referred to as canvas ceiling.\n Question: Who first used the term \"glass ceiling\"?", "output": "The term \"glass ceiling\" was first used by Marilyn Loden in a 1978 speech."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A companion dog is a dog that does not work, providing only companionship as a pet, rather than usefulness by doing specific tasks. Many of the toy dog breeds are used only for the pleasure of their company, not as workers. Any dog can be a companion dog, and many working types such as retrievers are enjoyed primarily for their friendly nature as a family pet, as are mixed breed dogs. The American Kennel Club also offers a Companion dog title for judged dog obedience competitions.\n Question: Based on this paragraph about dogs, what is a companion dog?", "output": "A companion dog is a dog that provides only companionship as a pet, rather than usefulness by doing specific tasks."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sam F.S. Chin (Chin Fan Siong, \u66fe\u5e06\u7965, born August 1, 1954) is the Grandmaster and Gatekeeper of the martial art called I Liq Chuan, and also known as \"the Martial Art of Awareness\". Chin developed the grading system for this system. \n\nChin was trained since childhood by his father, Chin Lik Keong, founder of I Liq Chuan, and in 1978, he won the state heavy weight kickboxing championships of Selangor (Malaysia). In August 2009 Chin was officially named the Gate Keeper and Lineage Holder of the I Liq Chuan. He is also the founder and President of Chin Family I Liq Chuan Association that supports the martial art's growth.\n\nChin has taught workshops worldwide , written two books on his family's martial art, co-authored articles, and produced a series of DVDs. Chin was interviewed by Jess O'Brien for his 2007 book \"Nei Jia Quan: Internal Martial Arts\".\n\nIn August 2009, Chin was also recognized by the USA Wushu Kung-Fu Federation as a Hall of Fame Outstanding Master. In 2014, he was written about by Ashe Higgs in Kung Fu Tai Chi Magazine \"Finding the Center: I Liq Chuan\u2019s Three Essential Qualities for Offense and Defense as One\". Chin was also the subject of the 2016 CCTV Documentary \"Kung Fu Abroad: I Liq Chuan \u4e2d\u592e\u7535\u89c6\u53f0\u300a\u529f\u592b\u5728\u5916\u300b\u7eaa\u5f55\u7247\".\n\nOn November 15, 2017 Sam Chin became an honorary professor at the University of Plovdiv, Bulgaria in recognition of his lifetime of achievement in spreading I Liq Chuan.\n Question: Who is the founder of the I Liq Chuan martial art?", "output": "The founder of I Liq Chuan is Chin Lik Keong."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Natural hydrogen (known as white hydrogen), is naturally occurring molecular hydrogen on or in Earth (as opposed to hydrogen produced in the laboratory or in industry). The name white hydrogen distinguishes it from green hydrogen, which is produced from renewable energy sources, and from grey, brown or black hydrogen, which is obtained from fossil sources or from the electrolysis of water. Natural hydrogen may be renewable, non-polluting and allows for lower cost operation compared to industrial hydrogen. Natural hydrogen has been identified in many source rocks in areas beyond the sedimentary basins where oil companies typically operate.\n\nOrigin of natural hydrogen\nThere are several sources of natural hydrogen:\n\n- degassing of deep hydrogen from the Earth's crust and mantle;\n- reaction of water with ultrabasic rocks (serpentinisation);\n- contact of water with reducing agents in the Earth's mantle;\n- interaction of water with freshly exposed rock surfaces (weathering);\n- decomposition of hydroxyl ions in the structure of minerals;\n- Natural radiolysis of water;\n- decomposition of organic matter;\n- biological activity\n- Extraction\n- Natural hydrogen is extracted from wells, mixed with other gases such as nitrogen or helium.\n\nSeveral sources have been identified in France. Geologists Alain Prinzhofer and Eric Derville have demonstrated the existence of large reservoirs in a dozen countries, including Mali and the United States. However, their potential remains difficult to assess.\n\nNumerous emanations on the ocean floor have been identified but are difficult to exploit. The discovery of a significant emergence in Russia in 2008 suggests the possibility of extracting native hydrogen in geological environments.\n\nGeology\nNatural hydrogen is generated continuously from a variety of natural sources. There are many known hydrogen emergences on mid-ocean ridges. Another of the known reactions, serpentinisation, occurs under the sea floor (in the oceanic crust).\n\nDiagenetic origin (iron oxidation) in the sedimentary basins of cratons, notably in Russia. Other sources are being explored, such as mantle hydrogen, or hydrogen from radiolysis (natural electrolysis) or from bacterial activity. In France, the Alps and Pyrenees are suitable for exploitation. New Caledonia has hyperalkaline sources that show dihydrogen emissions. A large accumulation of natural hydrogen was discovered in Bourakebougou (Mali).\n\nCharacteristics\nDihydrogen is very soluble in fresh water, especially at depth (solubility increases with pressure).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_hydrogen\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Natural hydrogen, what is it?", "output": "Natural hydrogen (known as white hydrogen), is naturally occurring molecular hydrogen on or in Earth (as opposed to hydrogen produced in the laboratory or in industry)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: TiDB (/\u2019ta\u026adi\u02d0bi:/, \"Ti\" stands for Titanium) is an open-source NewSQL database that supports Hybrid Transactional and Analytical Processing (HTAP) workloads. It is MySQL compatible and can provide horizontal scalability, strong consistency, and high availability. It is developed and supported primarily by PingCAP, Inc. and licensed under Apache 2.0. TiDB drew its initial design inspiration from Google's Spanner\n Question: What is TIDB", "output": "Database developed by PingCap for hybrid transactional and analytical processing"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Late 1800s\nOne of the first examples of bicycles modified specifically for off-road use is the expedition of Buffalo Soldiers from Missoula, Montana, to Yellowstone in August 1896.[failed verification]\n\n1900s\u20131960s\nBicycles were ridden off-road by road racing cyclists who used cyclocross as a means of keeping fit during the winter. Cyclo-cross eventually became a sport in its own right in the 1940s, with the first world championship taking place in 1950.\n\nThe Rough Stuff Fellowship was established in 1955 by off-road cyclists in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn Oregon in 1966, one Chemeketan club member, D. Gwynn, built a rough terrain trail bicycle. He named it a \"mountain bicycle\" for its intended place of use. This may be the first use of that name.\n\nIn England in 1968, Geoff Apps, a motorbike trials rider, began experimenting with off-road bicycle designs. By 1979 he had developed a custom-built lightweight bicycle which was uniquely suited to the wet and muddy off-road conditions found in the south-east of England. They were designed around 2 inch x 650b Nokian snow tires though a 700x47c (28 in.) version was also produced. These were sold under the Cleland Cycles brand until late 1984. Bikes based on the Cleland design were also sold by English Cycles and Highpath Engineering until the early 1990s.\n\n1970s\u20131980s\nThere were several groups of riders in different areas of the U.S.A. who can make valid claims to playing a part in the birth of the sport. Riders in Crested Butte, Colorado, and Mill Valley, California, tinkered with bikes and adapted them to the rigors of off-road riding. Modified heavy cruiser bicycles, old 1930s and '40s Schwinn bicycles retrofitted with better brakes and fat tires, were used for freewheeling down mountain trails in Marin County, California, in the mid-to-late 1970s. At the time, there were no mountain bikes. The earliest ancestors of modern mountain bikes were based around frames from cruiser bicycles such as those made by Schwinn. The Schwinn Excelsior was the frame of choice due to its geometry. Riders used balloon-tired cruisers and modified them with gears and motocross or BMX-style handlebars, creating \"klunkers\". The term would also be used as a verb since the term \"mountain biking\" was not yet in use. The first person known to fit multiple speeds and drum brakes to a klunker is Russ Mahon of Cupertino, California, who used the resulting bike in cyclo-cross racing. Riders would race down mountain fire roads, causing the hub brake to burn the grease inside, requiring the riders to repack the bearings. These were called \"Repack Races\" and triggered the first innovations in mountain bike technology as well as the initial interest of the public (on Mt. Tamalpais in Marin CA, there is still a trail titled \"Repack\"\u2014in reference to these early competitions). The sport originated in California on Marin County's Mount Tamalpais.\n\nIt was not until the late 1970s and early 1980s that road bicycle companies started to manufacture mountain bicycles using high-tech lightweight materials. Joe Breeze is normally credited with introducing the first purpose-built mountain bike in 1978. Tom Ritchey then went on to make frames for a company called MountainBikes, a partnership between Gary Fisher, Charlie Kelly and Tom Ritchey. Tom Ritchey, a welder with skills in frame building, also built the original bikes. The company's three partners eventually dissolved their partnership, and the company became Fisher Mountain Bikes, while Tom Ritchey started his own frame shop.\n\nThe first mountain bikes were basically road bicycle frames (with heavier tubing and different geometry) with a wider frame and fork to allow for a wider tire. The handlebars were also different in that they were a straight, transverse-mounted handlebar, rather than the dropped, curved handlebars that are typically installed on road racing bicycles. Also, some of the parts on early production mountain bicycles were taken from the BMX bicycle. Other contributors were Otis Guy and Keith Bontrager.\n\nTom Ritchey built the first regularly available mountain bike frame, which was accessorized by Gary Fisher and Charlie Kelly and sold by their company called MountainBikes (later changed to Fisher Mountain Bikes, then bought by Trek, still under the name Gary Fisher, currently sold as Trek's \"Gary Fisher Collection\"). The first two mass-produced mountain bikes were sold in the early 1980s: the Specialized Stumpjumper and Univega Alpina Pro. In 1988, The Great Mountain Biking Video was released, soon followed by others. In 2007, Klunkerz: A Film About Mountain Bikes was released, documenting mountain bike history during the formative period in Northern California. Additionally, a group of mountain bikers called the Laguna Rads formed a club during the mid eighties and began a weekly ride, exploring the uncharted coastal hillsides of Laguna Beach, California. Industry insiders suggest that this was the birth of the freeride movement, as they were cycling up and down hills and mountains where no cycling specific trail network prexisted. The Laguna Rads have also held the longest running downhill race once a year since 1986.\n\nAt the time, the bicycle industry was not impressed with the mountain bike, regarding mountain biking to be short-term fad. In particular, large manufacturers such as Schwinn and Fuji failed to see the significance of an all-terrain bicycle and the coming boom in 'adventure sports'. Instead, the first mass-produced mountain bikes were pioneered by new companies such as MountainBikes (later, Fisher Mountain Bikes), Ritchey, and Specialized. Specialized was an American startup company that arranged for production of mountain bike frames from factories in Japan and Taiwan. First marketed in 1981, Specialized's mountain bike largely followed Tom Ritchey's frame geometry, but used TiG welding to join the frame tubes instead of fillet-brazing, a process better suited to mass production, and which helped to reduce labor and manufacturing cost. The bikes were configured with 15 gears using derailleurs, a triple chainring, and a cogset with five sprockets.\n Question: When did mountain biking start?", "output": "Mountain biking as a sport came into existence in various areas in the USA in the late 1970s and early 1980s.  While many groups of riders in different US locations claim the birthright to mountain biking, it's clear that there wasn't a single person nor a single location that served as the starting point for the sport.  Riders in Crested Butte, CO, Marin County, CA, Mill Valley, CA, Cupertino, CA, and several other locations contributed significantly to the birth of the sport.\n\nIt wasn't until the late 1970s and early 1980s that bicycle companies began manufacturing mountain bikes with specific high-tech lightweight materials that popularized the sport.  Joe Breeze (Marin County) is often credited with building the first, purpose-built mountain bike in 1978.\n\nIt's important to note that there were mountain bike concepts and prototypes built well before this period, with the earliest concept belonging to the off-road bicycles used by the Buffalo Soldiers in 1896."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A low-flow fixture is a water saving plumbing fixture designed to achieve water savings by having a lower flow rate of water or a smaller quantity per flush. Some of these low-flow fixtures are faucets, showerheads, and toilets. In the United States a maximum water usage of conventional plumbing fixtures was federally mandated by the Energy policy act of 1992. Low-flow fixtures are designed to save water over conventional fixtures by having a lower flow rate while still maintaining satisfactory performance. The Environmental protection agency (EPA) WaterSense program has requirements for plumbing fixtures to achieve their definition for water saving low-flow.\n Question: What are some examples of low-flow fixtures?", "output": "faucets, showerheads, and toilets"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Isabel Emily Jay (17 October 1879 \u2013 26 February 1927) was an English opera singer and actress, best known for her performances in soprano roles of the Savoy Operas with the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company and in Edwardian musical comedies. During Jay's career, picture postcards were immensely popular, and Jay was photographed for over 400 different postcards.\n\nAfter studying at the Royal Academy of Music, Jay joined the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company in 1897, with whom she began singing principal roles immediately, becoming the company's leading soprano in 1899, where she played leading roles in comic operas including The Rose of Persia, The Pirates of Penzance, Patience, The Emerald Isle and Iolanthe. She married and left the company in 1902. She returned to the West End stage in 1903 and starred in eleven musicals over the ensuing years, including A Country Girl, The Cingalee, V\u00e9ronique, The White Chrysanthemum, The Girl Behind the Counter, Miss Hook of Holland, King of Cadonia and The Balkan Princess. She retired in 1911 at age 31.\n Question: Given a reference text about Isabel Emily Jay, tell me where she studied and how old she was when she retired.", "output": "Isabel Emily Jay studied at the Royal Academy of Music and retired at 31 years old."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As of 2013, UVA's $1.4 billion academic budget is paid for primarily by tuition and fees (32%), research grants (23%), endowment and gifts (19%), and sales and services (12%). The university receives 10% of its academic funds through state appropriation from the Commonwealth of Virginia. For the overall (including non-academic) university budget of $2.6 billion, 45% comes from medical patient revenue. The Commonwealth contributes less than 6%.\n Question: According to this paragraph about UVA, tell me how much of UVA's academic budget foes to endowment and gifts?", "output": "19% of UVA's academic budget goes to endowment and gifts."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bristol is the largest city in South West England, and as such is a centre for culture, research and higher education in the region. The city is home to a prestigious \"red brick university\" (University of Bristol) and a high-ranking \"new university\" (University of the West of England). The city is also noted for its investment in the sciences and engineering, particularly its ties to the aerospace industry.\n Question: Is Bristol a large city", "output": "Indeed. Bristol is the largest city in South West England, and as such is a centre for culture, research and higher education in the region. The city is home to a prestigious \"red brick university\" (University of Bristol) and a high-ranking \"new university\" (University of the West of England). The city is also noted for its investment in the sciences and engineering, particularly its ties to the aerospace industry."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Lost in Translation is a 2003 romantic comedy-drama film[note 1] written and directed by Sofia Coppola. Bill Murray stars as Bob Harris, a fading American movie star who is having a midlife crisis when he travels to Tokyo to promote Suntory whisky. There, he befriends another estranged American named Charlotte, a young woman and recent college graduate played by Scarlett Johansson. Giovanni Ribisi and Anna Faris also feature. The film explores themes of alienation and disconnection against a backdrop of cultural displacement in Japan. Further analysis by critics and scholars has focused on the film's defiance of mainstream narrative conventions and its atypical depiction of romance.\nMurray's performance in Sofia Coppola's Lost in Translation (2003) earned him a Golden Globe and a British Academy Film Award and an Oscar nomination for Best Actor. He has frequently collaborated with directors Ivan Reitman, Harold Ramis, Wes Anderson, Sofia Coppola, Jim Jarmusch, John McNaughton and the Farrelly brothers. He received Golden Globe nominations for his roles in Ghostbusters, Rushmore (1998), Hyde Park on Hudson (2012), St. Vincent (2014), On the Rocks (2020) and the HBO miniseries Olive Kitteridge (2014), for which he later won his second Primetime Emmy Award.\"\n Question: Who directed the Lost in Translation movie?", "output": "Lost in Translation was written and directed by Sofia Coppola."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the course of the warship's eight-month career, Bismarck conducted only one offensive operation that lasted 8 days in May 1941, codenamed Rhein\u00fcbung. The ship, along with the heavy cruiser Prinz Eugen, was to break into the Atlantic Ocean and raid Allied shipping from North America to Great Britain. The two ships were detected several times off Scandinavia, and British naval units were deployed to block their route. At the Battle of the Denmark Strait, the battlecruiser HMS Hood initially engaged Prinz Eugen, probably by mistake, while HMS Prince of Wales engaged Bismarck. In the ensuing battle Hood was destroyed by the combined fire of Bismarck and Prinz Eugen, which then damaged Prince of Wales and forced her retreat. Bismarck suffered sufficient damage from three hits by Prince of Wales to force an end to the raiding mission.\n Question: How long was the Nazi German battleship Bismarck active during WWII?", "output": "The Bismarck was active for only 8 months of World WarII. The Bismarck and an accompanying heavy crusier, the Prinz Eugen engaged with two British battlecruisers, the Hood and the Prince of Wales off the Denmark Strait in May 1941.  During the engagement, the Hood was destroyed but the Bismarck suffered damage from fire from the Price of Wales that forced the Nazi battleship to effectively end its operations."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The name Birkenhead probably means \"headland overgrown with birch\", from the Old English bircen meaning birch tree, of which many once grew on the headland which jutted into the river at Woodside. The name is not derived from the Birket, a stream which enters the Mersey between Birkenhead and Seacombe. The Birket is a later name which was introduced by Ordnance Survey.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the town of Birkenhead, what the does the name Birkenhead probably mean?", "output": "It probably means \"headland overgrown with birch\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Black Oak is a community in White River Township, Washington County, Arkansas, United States. It is located between Greenland and Elkins and lies six miles southeast of Fayetteville.\n\nThe community lies along the west bank of the Middle Fork of the White River. The community of Sulphur City lies on the east bank of the river approximately 1.5 mile to the southeast.\n Question: Where is Black Oak?", "output": "Black Oak is a community is Arkansas, United States."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Thirteen Colonies, also known as the Thirteen British Colonies, the Thirteen American Colonies, were a group of British colonies on the Atlantic coast of North America. Founded in the 17th and 18th centuries, the American Enlightenment led these colonies to revolution, and declaring full independence in July 1776. With victory over Britain in the American Revolutionary War the former colonies were confirmed as the new United States of America. Just prior to declaring independence, the Thirteen Colonies in their traditional groupings were: New England (New Hampshire; Massachusetts; Rhode Island; Connecticut); Middle (New York; New Jersey; Pennsylvania; Delaware); Southern (Maryland; Virginia; North Carolina; South Carolina; and Georgia). The Thirteen Colonies came to have very similar political, constitutional, and legal systems, dominated by Protestant English-speakers. The first of these colonies was Virginia Colony in 1607, a Southern colony. While all these colonies needed to become economically viable, the founding of the New England colonies, as well as the colonies of Maryland and Pennsylvania, were substantially motivated by their founders' concerns related to the practice of religion. The other colonies were founded for business and economic expansion. The Middle Colonies were established on an earlier Dutch colony, New Netherland. All the Thirteen Colonies were part of Britain's possessions in the New World, which also included territory in Canada, Florida, and the Caribbean.\n Question: How many and which states were US Colonies?", "output": "There were 13 British Colonies that became States in the United States of America in 1776:  Connecticut, Delaware, Georgia, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, and Virginia."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Southern Charm is an American reality television series that premiered on Bravo on March 3, 2014. The series chronicles the personal and professional lives of several socialites who reside in Charleston, South Carolina.\n\nThe show focuses on the Southern culture, along with the political history of the area, and has featured local historical places including Lewisfield Plantation and Mikell House. The show gives viewers an inside look at modern day aristocracy in Charleston, South Carolina.\n Question: What is Southern Charm the TV Show?", "output": "Southern Charm is a Bravo TV Show based in Charleston SC. They go to dinners, throw parties, fight with each other like any other reality TV show. Some of the known character on the show include Craig Conover, Shep Rose, Austen Kroll, Leva Bonaparte, Madison LeCroy, and Taylor-Ann Greene."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: What is the total number of goals scored by this player when he played for the Sevilla team?\n Question: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wissam_Ben_Yedder#Club", "output": "38"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: British Shorthairs are an easygoing and dignified breed, not as active and playful as many, but sweet-natured and devoted to their owners, making them a favorite of animal trainers. They tend to be safe around other pets and children since they will tolerate a fair amount of physical interaction, but as a rule do not like to be picked up or carried. They require only minimal grooming and take well to being kept as indoor-only cats; however, they can be prone to obesity unless care is taken with their diet. They are quiet and vigilant, but if they trust their owners, they will silently follow the owners\u2019 activities and stay with them. British Shorthair cats are not lap cats. They are more accustomed to staying beside people than squatting on people\u2019s laps. Similarly, they prefer the feeling of having their feet on the ground. They have low voice and a moderate activity level. When there is no one at home, they will stay at home quietly and wait for their owners to come back.\n Question: Given this paragraph about British Shorthairs, what are the typical characteristics of this cat breed's temperament?", "output": "British Shorthairs are an easygoing, quiet and dignified breed. They are sweet-natured and devoted to their owners. When there is no one at home, they will stay at home quietly and wait for their owners to come back."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Peru, officially the Republic of Peru (Spanish: Rep\u00fablica del Per\u00fa (help\u00b7info)), is a country in western South America. It is bordered in the north by Ecuador and Colombia, in the east by Brazil, in the southeast by Bolivia, in the south by Chile, and in the south and west by the Pacific Ocean. Peru is a megadiverse country with habitats ranging from the arid plains of the Pacific coastal region in the west to the peaks of the Andes mountains extending from the north to the southeast of the country to the tropical Amazon basin rainforest in the east with the Amazon River. Peru has a population of over 34 million, and its capital and largest city is Lima. At 1,285,216 km2 (496,225 sq mi), Peru is the 19th largest country in the world, and the third largest in South America.\n Question: Given this paragraph that describes the country of Peru, what is its population size?", "output": "Peru has a population of over 34 million people."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: For some diving, gas mixtures other than normal atmospheric air (21% oxygen, 78% nitrogen, 1% trace gases) can be used, so long as the diver is competent in their use. The most commonly used mixture is nitrox, also referred to as Enriched Air Nitrox (EAN), which is air with extra oxygen, often with 32% or 36% oxygen, and thus less nitrogen, reducing the risk of decompression sickness or allowing longer exposure to the same pressure for equal risk. The reduced nitrogen may also allow for no stops or shorter decompression stop times or a shorter surface interval between dives. A common misconception is that nitrox can reduce narcosis, but research has shown that oxygen is also narcotic.:\u200a304\n Question: What is the most common air or gas mixture used in recreational scuba diving.", "output": "For most recreational diving atmospheric air with 21% oxygen and 78% nitrogen is used. The second most common mixture is Enriched Air Nitrox which contains extra oxygen with 32% or 36% and less Nitrogen than is found in atmospheric air, which permits divers to have shorter safety stops or shorter surface intervals."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1907, the eclectic interests of the land baron Henry E. Huntington brought surfing to the California coast. While on vacation, Huntington had seen Hawaiian boys surfing the island waves. Looking for a way to entice visitors to the area of Redondo Beach, where he had heavily invested in real estate, he hired a young Hawaiian to ride surfboards. George Freeth decided to revive the art of surfing, but had little success with the huge 500 cm (16 ft) hardwood boards that were popular at that time. When he cut them in half to make them more manageable, he created the original \"Long board\", which made him the talk of the islands. To the delight of visitors, Freeth exhibited his surfing skills twice a day in front of the Hotel Redondo. Another native Hawaiian, Duke Kahanamoku, spread surfing to both the U.S. and Australia, riding the waves after displaying the swimming prowess that won him Olympic gold medals in 1912 and 1920.\n Question: What are the origins or surfing in California?", "output": "Surfing as a local pastime is a natural fit for most Californian's living near the coast. The rise in popularity of beach life in Southern California and especially the film \"Gidget\" exploded the desire to be a part of the rising surf culture. California was looked upon by most of the nation as trend setting and surfing served as the epitome of cool for most people looking from afar."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Chicago is an international hub for finance, culture, commerce, industry, education, technology, telecommunications, and transportation. It is the site of the creation of the first standardized futures contracts, issued by the Chicago Board of Trade, which today is part of the largest and most diverse derivatives market in the world, generating 20% of all volume in commodities and financial futures alone. O'Hare International Airport is routinely ranked among the world's top six busiest airports according to tracked data by the Airports Council International. The region also has the largest number of federal highways and is the nation's railroad hub. The Chicago area has one of the highest gross domestic products (GDP) in the world, generating $689 billion in 2018. The economy of Chicago is diverse, with no single industry employing more than 14% of the workforce. It is home to several Fortune 500 companies, including Archer-Daniels-Midland, Conagra Brands, Exelon, JLL, Kraft Heinz, McDonald's, Mondelez International, Motorola Solutions, Sears, and United Airlines Holdings.\n Question: Although Chicago isn't located on either coast of the United States, what factors continue to contribute to its economic success?", "output": "Even though Chicago is the biggest major in-land city in America, its diverse economic sectors allows it maintain its status as a competitive global city. Chicago is the country's main railroad hub. Not only is it paramount to the transportation of goods nationally, but its ability to ensure that not a single industry dominates more than 14% of the city's workforce helps its economic endeavors. Having one of the most active airports in the world and an infrastructure proven to be conducive to a plethora of industries, it makes it an ideal location for companies to plant their headquarters as Exelon, JLL, McDonald's, and Motorola all have done."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Throughout the 19th century, the population of Mexico had barely doubled. This trend continued during the first two decades of the 20th century. The 1921 census reported a loss of about 1 million inhabitants. The Mexican Revolution (c. 1910\u20131920) greatly impacted population increases. The growth rate increased dramatically between the 1930s and the 1980s, when the country registered growth rates of over 3% (1950\u20131980). The Mexican population doubled in twenty years, and at that rate it was expected that by 2000 there would be 120 million people living in Mexico. Life expectancy increased from 36 years (in 1895) to 72 years (in the year 2000). According to estimations made by Mexico's National Geography and Statistics Institute, is estimated in 2022 to be 129,150,971 as of 2017 Mexico had 123.5 million inhabitants making it the most populous Spanish-speaking country in the world.\n Question: Given this paragraph about a country, what is the most populous Spanish-speaking country?", "output": "Mexico"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Phillips Academy is the oldest incorporated academy in the United States, established in 1778 by Samuel Phillips Jr. His uncle, Dr. John Phillips, later founded Phillips Exeter Academy in 1781. Phillips Academy's endowment stood at just over one billion dollars as of February 2016. Andover is subject to the control of a board of trustees, headed by Amy Falls, who succeeded Peter Currie, business executive and former Netscape Chief Financial Officer, who himself had taken over as president of the Phillips Academy Board of Trustees on July 1, 2012. On December 5, 2019, Dr. Raynard S. Kington, 13th President of Grinnell College, was named the 16th Head of School.\n\nPhillips Academy admitted only boys until the school became coeducational in 1973, the year of Phillips Academy's merger with Abbot Academy, a boarding school for girls also in Andover. Abbot Academy, founded in 1828, was one of the first incorporated schools for girls in New England. Then-headmaster Theodore Sizer of Phillips and Donald Gordon of Abbot oversaw the merger.\n\nAndover traditionally educated its students for Yale, just as Phillips Exeter Academy educated its students for Harvard, and Lawrenceville prepped students for Princeton.\n\nThe school's student-run newspaper, The Phillipian, is the oldest secondary school newspaper in the United States, the next oldest secondary school newspaper being The Exonian, Phillips Exeter Academy's weekly. The Phillipian was first published on July 28, 1857, and has been published regularly since 1878. It retains financial and editorial independence from Phillips Academy, having completed a $500,000 endowment drive in 2014. Students comprise the editorial board and make all decisions for the paper, consulting with two faculty advisors at their own discretion. The Philomathean Society is one of the oldest high school debate societies in the nation, second to the Daniel Webster Debate Society at Phillips Exeter Academy.\n\nPhillips Academy also runs a five-week summ\n Question: What is the oldest incorporated academy in the united states, with multiple u.s. presidents as alumni?", "output": "Phillips Academy Andover, Massachusetts"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bon Iver (/\u02ccbo\u028an i\u02d0\u02c8v\u025b\u0259r/ BOHN ee-VAIR) is an American indie folk band founded in 2006 by singer-songwriter Justin Vernon.\n Question: Who is the singer in Bon Iver?", "output": "Justin Vernon is the singer-songwriter in Bon Iver."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: South Korea, officially the Republic of Korea (ROK), is a country in East Asia. It constitutes the southern part of the Korean Peninsula and borders North Korea. The country's western border is formed by the Yellow Sea, while its eastern border is defined by the Sea of Japan. South Korea claims to be the sole legitimate government of the entire peninsula and adjacent islands. It has a population of 51.75 million, of which roughly half live in the Seoul Capital Area, the fourth most populous metropolitan area in the world. Other major cities include Incheon, Busan, and Daegu.\n Question: Given this paragraph about South Korea, which body of water forms the country's western border and which body of water borders it's eastern border?", "output": "The western border of South Korea is formed by the Yellow Sea, while the eastern border is formed by the Sea of Japan."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Final Fantasy is a Japanese science fantasy anthology media franchise created by Hironobu Sakaguchi and developed and owned by Square Enix (formerly Square). The franchise centers on a series of fantasy and science fantasy role-playing video games. The first game in the series was released in 1987, with 15 numbered main entries having been released to date.\n Question: Who created Final Fantasy?", "output": "Final Fantasy was created by Hironobu Sakaguchi"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The warp drive of the Prometheus-class made the ships of this class faster than any other starship in the fleet at the time in the mid 2370s. The warp drive was capable of maintaining speeds exceeding warp 9.9. (VOY: \"Message in a Bottle\")\n Question: Given the paragraph around Star Trek starships, which is the fastest.", "output": "The fastest starship in the Star Trek universe is the USS Prometheus"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The French Bulldog, French: Bouledogue Fran\u00e7ais, is a French breed of companion dog or toy dog. It appeared in Paris in the mid-nineteenth century, apparently the result of cross-breeding of Toy Bulldogs imported from England and local Parisian ratters.\n\nIt is commonly kept as a pet, and is among the most frequently registered dogs in a number of countries including Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States.\n Question: Based on this paragraph about dogs, what is a French Bulldog?", "output": "The French Bulldog is a French breed of companion dog or toy dog. It is is among the most frequently registered dogs in a number of countries including Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Oskar Dillon (born 10 February 1999), is an Australian professional footballer who plays as a centre back for Oakleigh Cannons in NPL Victoria.\n\nClub career\nGold Coast Knights\nDillon was part of the 2019 NPL Queensland championship winning Gold Coast Knights team. He played the full game and scored the winning goal, a free-kick from 25 yards out, as the Knights' defeated Olympic FC 2-1 in the 2019 NPL Queensland Grand Final on 14 September 2019, claiming their first piece of top-flight silverware. After an impressive campaign, Dillon was awarded the NPL Queensland Young Player of the Year at the inaugural Football in Queensland Awards Night.\n\nWestern United\nOn 2 January 2020, Dillon signed his first professional contract with Western United, penning a one-year deal for the 2019-20 season. He made his debut in a Round 15 clash against Central Coast Mariners, playing the full game as United ran out 3-0 winners at GMHBA Stadium. Dillon was released by the club at the end of the 2019\u201320 A-League.\n Question: How far did Oskar Dillon kick in the winning goal at the NPL Queensland championship?", "output": "Oskar Dillon, the Australian professional footballer did a free kick from 25 yards out defeating the Knights in the 2019 NPL Queensland Grand final."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Henry Holst String Quartet was founded by the Danish violinist Henry Holst in 1931. Holst had studied at the Royal Danish Conservatory under Axel Gade and Carl Nielsen. In 1923, he was appointed leader of the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, but in 1931 he moved to Manchester as a Professor at the Royal Manchester College of Music.\n\nThe move to Manchester led to the formation of the Henry Holst String Quartet with Charles Taylor (second violin), Herbert Downes (viola) and Anthony Pini (cello). The ensemble was recognised as fine quartet, touring extensively in the UK and broadcasting on BBC Radio. They played a number of times in Liverpool for the Rodewald Concert Society in the 1934 and 1937 seasons.\n\nErnest Element (2nd violin) and Frank Venton (viola) also sometimes played for the quartet. Herbert Downes left to lead his own quartet in 1935. Charles Taylor also left to found his own quartet and was replaced by Reginald Stead as second violin. Reginald Stead later became the leader of the BBC Northern Orchestra. Anthony Pini joined the London Philharmonic Orchestra in 1932 and was replaced by John C Hock as cellist. The Henry Holst Quartet finally disbanded when Henry Holst formed the Philharmonia Quartet in 1941 at the instigation of Walter Legge to record for Columbia Records.\n Question: How long did the Henry Holst String Quartet last with its original group of members based on this text? Explain your work.", "output": "It lasted for one year before an original member left. The first member to leave was Anthony Pini in 1932. The band was founded when Holst moved to Manchester in 1931. There is one year between these dates."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mercury-Redstone 1 (MR-1) was the first Mercury-Redstone uncrewed flight test in Project Mercury and the first attempt to launch a Mercury spacecraft with the Mercury-Redstone Launch Vehicle. Intended to be an uncrewed sub-orbital spaceflight, it was launched on November 21, 1960 from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida. The launch failed in abnormal fashion: immediately after the Mercury-Redstone rocket started to move, it shut itself down and settled back on the pad, after which the capsule jettisoned its escape rocket and deployed its recovery parachutes. The failure has been referred to as the \"four-inch flight\", for the approximate distance traveled by the launch vehicle.\n Question: Given this paragraph on Mercury-Redstone 1, how many people were on the MR-1 when the launched failed, and when was the launch?", "output": "MR-1 was launched on November 21, 1960, and MR-1 was an uncrewed flight, so there were no people on the spacecraft."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sagan is considered one of cycling's greatest talents, having earned many prestigious victories, including three consecutive World Championships, one European Championship, two Paris\u2013Nice stages, seven Tirreno\u2013Adriatico stages, one in the Tour de Romandie, three and the overall classification in the Tour de Pologne, a record seventeen stages and the overall in the Tour of California, and another fifteen in the Tour de Suisse.\n Question: How many cycling world championships has Peter Sagan won?", "output": "Sagan has won three consecutive cycling world championships"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Franz Kafka (3 July 1883 \u2013 3 June 1924) was a German-speaking Bohemian novelist and short-story writer based in Prague, who is widely regarded as one of the major figures of 20th-century literature. His work fuses elements of realism and the fantastic. It typically features isolated protagonists facing bizarre or surrealistic predicaments and incomprehensible socio-bureaucratic powers. It has been interpreted as exploring themes of alienation, existential anxiety, guilt, and absurdity. His best known works include the short story \"The Metamorphosis\" and novels The Trial and The Castle. The term Kafkaesque has entered English to describe absurd situations, like those depicted in his writing.\n Question: When was Franz Kafka born and who was he?", "output": "Franz Kafka was born on 3 July 1883, and was a German-speaking Bohemian novelist and short-story writer based in Prague."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Swift has won 12 Grammy Awards (including three for Album of the Year\u2014tying for the most by an artist), an Emmy Award, 40 American Music Awards (the most won by an artist), 29 Billboard Music Awards (the most won by a woman), 92 Guinness World Records, 14 MTV Video Music Awards (including three Video of the Year wins\u2014the most by an act), 12 Country Music Association Awards (including the Pinnacle Award), eight Academy of Country Music Awards, and two Brit Awards. As a songwriter, she has been honored by the Nashville Songwriters Association, the Songwriters Hall of Fame, and the National Music Publishers' Association and was the youngest person on Rolling Stone's list of the 100 Greatest Songwriters of All Time in 2015. At the 64th BMI Awards in 2016, Swift was the first woman to be honored with an award named after its recipient. In 2023, Swift became the first act to be named the global best-selling artist of the year by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) thrice.\n Question: From this paragraph about Taylor Swift, how many AMAs has she won.", "output": "Taylor Swift has won 40 AMAs (American Music Awards)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The marathon is a long-distance foot race with a distance of 42.195 km (26 mi 385 yd), usually run as a road race, but the distance can be covered on trail routes. The marathon can be completed by running or with a run/walk strategy. There are also wheelchair divisions. More than 800 marathons are held throughout the world each year, with the vast majority of competitors being recreational athletes, as larger marathons can have tens of thousands of participants.\n Question: Given this paragraph about marathon, what is the distance covered in kilometres and what are the most common ways to complete one?", "output": "The distance covered in a marathon is 42.195 kilometers and it can be completed by running and walking combined, though there are also possibilities for wheelchair participants."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"The sauna in Finland is an old phenomenon and its roots are difficult to trace, but its earliest versions are believed to be from 7000 BC.[citation needed] Bath houses were recorded in Europe during the same time period, but Finnish bathing habits were poorly documented for most of history. One of the first written mentions of what is believed to be the sauna customs of the forefathers of the Finns was written by Nestor the Chronicler in 1112. He told of \"\"hot wooden saunas in which naked bathers beat themselves with branches and finally pour cold water over themselves\"\".\n\nDuring the Reformation in Scandinavia the popularity of saunas expanded to other countries because the European bath houses were being destroyed.\n\nOne reason the sauna culture has always flourished in Finland has been because of the versatility of the sauna. When people were moving, the first thing they did was to build a sauna. Finns have used the sauna to live in, eat, address matters of hygiene, and, most importantly, give birth in an almost sterile environment. Unlike many other, more densely populated places in Europe, the availability of wood needed to build and warm the sauna has never been an issue. Another reason for its popularity is that in such a cold climate, the sauna allows people warmth for at least a short period of time. However, it is just as popular in the summer as in the winter.\"\n Question: What is one of the first recorded mentions of the sauna in Finnish literature?", "output": "Nestor the Chronicler in 1112. He told of \"hot wooden saunas in which naked bathers beat themselves with branches and finally pour cold water over themselves\"\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Iolaus crawshayi, the Crawshay's sapphire, is a butterfly in the family Lycaenidae. It is found in Ethiopia, Somalia, Kenya, Uganda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Tanzania. The habitat consists of moist savanna.\n\nThe larvae feed on the young leaves of Erianthemum dregei and Phragmanthera usuiensis. They are dull dirty whitish green or brown.\n Question: What kind of animal is the Iolaus crawshayi", "output": "Iolaus crawshayi, the Crawshay's sapphire, is a butterfly in the family Lycaenidae. It is found in Ethiopia, Somalia, Kenya, Uganda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Tanzania.\nThe habitat consists of moist savanna.\n\nThe larvae feed on the young leaves of Erianthemum dregei and Phragmanthera usuiensis. They are dull dirty whitish green or brown."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jorge Rub\u00e9n Garc\u00eda Velazco (born 29 October 1962) is an Argentine windsurfer. He competed at the 1984 Summer Olympics and the 1988 Summer Olympics.\n Question: How many times did Jorge compete in the Olympics?", "output": "Two times"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As of 2021, the power and capacity of the largest individual battery storage power plants is an order of magnitude less than that of the largest pumped storage power plants, the most common form of grid energy storage. For example, the Bath County Pumped Storage Station, the second largest in the world, can store 24GWh of electricity and dispatch 3GW while the first phase of Vistra Energy's Moss Landing Energy Storage Facility can store 1.2GWh and dispatch 300MW. Grid batteries do not however have to be large, and smaller ones can be deployed widely across a grid for greater redundancy.\n\nAs of 2019, battery power storage is cheaper than open cycle gas turbine power for use up to two hours, and there was around 365 GWh of battery storage deployed worldwide, growing extremely rapidly. Levelized cost of electricity from battery storage has fallen rapidly, halving in two years to US$150 per MWh as of 2020.\n Question: Given these paragraphs about battery storage power stations, what was the levelized cost of electricity from battery storage as of 2020?", "output": "US$150 per MWh."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the mathematical area of graph theory, a clique is a subset of vertices of an undirected graph such that every two distinct vertices in the clique are adjacent. That is, a clique of a graph  G is an induced subgraph of  G that is complete. Cliques are one of the basic concepts of graph theory and are used in many other mathematical problems and constructions on graphs. Cliques have also been studied in computer science: the task of finding whether there is a clique of a given size in a graph (the clique problem) is NP-complete, but despite this hardness result, many algorithms for finding cliques have been studied.\n\nAlthough the study of complete subgraphs goes back at least to the graph-theoretic reformulation of Ramsey theory by Erd\u0151s & Szekeres (1935), the term clique comes from Luce & Perry (1949), who used complete subgraphs in social networks to model cliques of people; that is, groups of people all of whom know each other. Cliques have many other applications in the sciences and particularly in bioinformatics.\n Question: What is a clique in graph theory?", "output": "In graph theory, a clique is a subset of vertices of an undirected graph such that every two distinct vertices in the clique are adjacent."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Dona nobis pacem\" (Ecclesiastical Latin: [\u02c8dona \u02c8nobis \u02c8pat\u0283em], \"Give us peace\") is a round for three parts to a short Latin text from the Agnus Dei. The melody has been passed orally. The round is part of many hymnals and songbooks. Beyond use at church, the round has been popular for secular quests for peace, such as the reunification of Germany.\n Question: Given the following paragraph about Latin Text, what does \"Dona nobis pacem\" mean in English?", "output": "\"Give us peace\""}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: G\u00f6bekli Tepe (Turkish: [\u025f\u0153bec\u02c8li te\u02c8pe], \"Potbelly Hill\"; known as Gir\u00ea Mirazan or Xirabre\u015fk\u00ea in Kurdish) is a Neolithic archaeological site in the Southeastern Anatolia Region of Turkey. Dated to the Pre-Pottery Neolithic, between c. 9500 and 8000 BCE, the site comprises a number of large circular structures supported by massive stone pillars \u2013 the world's oldest known megaliths. Many of these pillars are richly decorated with figurative anthropomorphic details, clothing, and reliefs of wild animals, providing archaeologists rare insights into prehistoric religion and the particular iconography of the period. The 15 m (50 ft)-high, 8 ha (20-acre) tell also includes many smaller buildings, quarries, and stone-cut cisterns from the Neolithic, as well as some traces of activity from later periods.\n Question: What is Gobekli Tepe?", "output": "Gobekli Tepe is a neolithic archaeological site located in the Anatolia region of Turkey. It is the world's oldest known megalith, dating as far back as 12000 years."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The population of Puerto Rico according to the 2020 census was 3,285,874, an 11.8% decrease since the 2010 United States Census. The commonwealth's population peaked in 2000, when it was 3,808,610, before declining (for the first time in census history) to 3,725,789 in 2010. Emigration due to economic difficulties and natural disasters, coupled with a low birth rate, have caused the population decline to continue in recent years.\n Question: How much has the population of Puerto Rico been growing?", "output": "The population of Puerto Rico decreased 11.8% between 2010 and 2020, from 3,725,789 in 2010 to 3,285,874 in 2020, according to the United States Census. Emigration due to economic difficulties and natural disasters, coupled with a low birth rate, have caused the population decline to continue in recent years."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the season-opener against the Philadelphia Eagles, Goff threw for 215 yards and two touchdowns, but threw an interception returned for a touchdown as the Lions narrowly lost by a score of 38\u201335. In the next game against the Washington Commanders, he threw for 256 yards and four touchdowns in a 36\u201327 victory. In the Week 2 game against Washington, Goff produced his sixth straight home game with two or more passing touchdowns, establishing a Lions franchise record. On October 2, Goff again threw four touchdowns passes, and this time added a tenure-high 378 passing yards during a 48\u201345 loss to the Seattle Seahawks. Goff finished his second season with the Lions with 4,438 yards, 29 touchdowns, and seven interceptions, starting in all 17 games. Goff was named to his third Pro Bowl as an alternative, replacing Super Bowl bound Jalen Hurts.\n Question: What was Goff's best game mentioned in the text?", "output": "Goff's best game mentioned in the text was on October 2 when he threw four touchdowns passes, and added a tenure-high 378 passing yards during a 48\u201345 loss to the Seattle Seahawks.\n\nGoff played another good game against the Washington Commanders, when he threw for 256 yards and four touchdowns in a 36\u201327 victory, but this performance wasn't as good as the game against the Seahawks because he threw for fewer yards even though he threw for the same amount of touchdowns.\n\nNote that the text is also missing information that would be useful in judging Goff's performance such as QBR, completion percentage, etc."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 98th General Assembly enacted a total of 1,175 bills into law. Notable among these was the Illinois Religious Freedom and Marriage Fairness Act, which removed legal barriers to same-sex marriage in Illinois. The House of Representatives passed the bill by a 61\u201354 vote on November 5, 2013, and the Senate passed it by a 32\u201321 vote. The governor signed the bill into law on November 20, and the law took effect on June 1, 2014.\n\nThe General Assembly also passed the Illinois Bill of Rights for the Homeless, which made Illinois the second state to ban discrimination against the homeless.\n\nThe General Assembly also passed the Firearm Concealed Carry Act (FCCA), a change to Illinois gun law that made Illinois the last state in the country to enact concealed carry. Passed over the governor's veto, the FCCA took effect \"mere hours before the seventh circuit's deadline\" in Moore v. Madigan.\n\nLate in the legislative session, the General Assembly passed a bill that changes the original Illinois wiretapping law adding that in order to commit a criminal offense, a person must be recording \"in a surreptitious manner\". On December 30, 2014, Governor Quinn signed the bill into law as Public Act 098-1142. The bill's sponsors, Elaine Nekritz and Kwame Raoul, claimed the law upholds the rights of citizens to record in public.\n\nThe General Assembly approved five ballot measures for the 2014 Illinois general election, an unusually large number for the state, including three advisory referendums and two constitutional amendments. The constitutional amendments, Marsy's Law and the Illinois Right to Vote Amendment, both passed with the required 60% majority of the popular vote.\n Question: here is a blurb about the 98th Illinois General Assembly, what were the notable laws that were passed?", "output": "removing the legal barriers to same-sex marriage, banning discrimination against homeless people, conceal and carry firearms, and revising the wiretapping laws so that citizens can record in public."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: McDonald's Corporation is an American multinational fast food chain, founded in 1940 as a restaurant operated by Richard and Maurice McDonald, in San Bernardino, California, United States. They rechristened their business as a hamburger stand, and later turned the company into a franchise, with the Golden Arches logo being introduced in 1953 at a location in Phoenix, Arizona. In 1955, Ray Kroc, a businessman, joined the company as a franchise agent and proceeded to purchase the chain from the McDonald brothers. McDonald's had its previous headquarters in Oak Brook, Illinois, but moved its global headquarters to Chicago in June 2018.\n\nMcDonald's is the world's largest fast food restaurant chain, serving over 69 million customers daily in over 100 countries in more than 40,000 outlets as of 2021. McDonald's is best known for its hamburgers, cheeseburgers and french fries, although their menu also includes other items like chicken, fish, fruit, and salads. Their best-selling licensed item are their french fries, followed by the Big Mac. The McDonald's Corporation revenues come from the rent, royalties, and fees paid by the franchisees, as well as sales in company-operated restaurants. McDonald's is the world's second-largest private employer with 1.7 million employees (behind Walmart with 2.3 million employees). As of 2022, McDonald's has the sixth-highest global brand valuation.\n\nMcDonald's has been subject to criticism over the health effects of its products, its treatment of employees, and other business practices.\n Question: Based on the reference text about McDonalds, tell me what year it was founded, how many daily customers they have, and their best selling product.", "output": "McDonalds was founded in 1940 and serves over 69 million customers a day as of 2021. It's best selling product are their french fries."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Formula One cars are the fastest regulated road-course racing cars in the world, owing to very high cornering speeds achieved through the generation of large amounts of aerodynamic downforce. Much of this downforce is generated by front and rear wings, which have the side effect of causing severe turbulence behind each car. The turbulence reduces the downforce generated by the cars following directly behind, making it hard to overtake. Major changes made to the cars for the 2022 season has seen greater use of ground effect aerodynamics and modified wings to reduce the turbulence behind the cars, with the goal of making overtaking easier. The cars are dependent on electronics, aerodynamics, suspension and tyres. Traction control, launch control, and automatic shifting, plus other electronic driving aids, were first banned in 1994. They were briefly reintroduced in 2001, and have more recently been banned since 2004 and 2008, respectively.\n Question: How do formula one cars generate downforce?", "output": "Formula one cars generate downforce mainly using front and rear wings."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Short Circuit is a 1986 American science fiction comedy film directed by John Badham and written by S. S. Wilson and Brent Maddock. The film's plot centers on an experimental military robot that is struck by lightning and gains a human-like intelligence, prompting it to escape its facility to learn more about the world. The film stars Ally Sheedy, Steve Guttenberg, Fisher Stevens, Austin Pendleton and G. W. Bailey, with Tim Blaney as the voice of the robot named \"Number 5\". A sequel, Short Circuit 2, was released in 1988, directed by Kenneth Johnson.\n\nNOVA Laboratory robotics experts Newton Crosby and Ben Jabituya have developed several prototype robots called S.A.I.N.T. (Strategic Artificially Intelligent Nuclear Transport) for the U.S. military to use in Cold War operations, though they would rather seek peaceful applications of the robots. After a live demonstration for the military, one of the units, S.A.I.N.T. Number 5, is struck by lightning arcing through the lab's power grid. This scrambles its programming and makes it sentient, resulting in its escape from the NOVA facility.\n\nThe robot finds itself in Astoria, Oregon, and is found by Stephanie Speck, an animal caregiver, who mistakes him for an alien. She takes the robot into her home, where she provides him with \"input\" in the form of visual and verbal stimuli, allowing the robot to improve its language skills. Stephanie continues to help the curious Number 5 robot learn about the world. She eventually discovers that Number 5 was built by NOVA, and contacts them about the lost robot. Nova's CEO, Dr. Howard Marner, orders Crosby and Ben to recover him, so they can disassemble and rebuild him. While waiting for NOVA to arrive, Number 5 learns about death when he accidentally crushes a grasshopper and concludes that if NOVA disassembles him, he will die, and escapes in Stephanie's food truck. However, NOVA uses a tracking device on Number 5 to corner him and deactivate the robot for return to the facility. During transport, Number 5 reactivates himself and removes the tracking device, and flees back to Stephanie.\n\nBecause of these unusual actions, Crosby tries to convince Howard that something has changed with Number 5's programming and that they should take care not to damage it in their recovery efforts so that he can examine them later. Howard instead sends their security chief Captain Skroeder and three other S.A.I.N.T. prototypes to capture Number 5 by force, ignoring Crosby's concerns. Number 5 outwits the other robots and reprograms their personalities to act like The Three Stooges, allowing him to escape. Number 5 \u201ckidnaps\u201d Crosby, takes him to Stephanie, and convinces Crosby of his sentience. They find that Skroeder has called in the United States Army to capture Number 5, and on his orders, restrain Crosby and Stephanie so he can open fire. To protect his friends, Number 5 leads the Army away and appears to be destroyed by a helicopter missile. Stephanie is devastated as Skroeder's men scrounge the remains of Number 5 as trophies, prompting Crosby to resign from NOVA and drive away with Stephanie in the NOVA van. Howard is dismayed over the loss of his research and dismisses Skroeder for insubordination.\n\nCrosby and Stephanie are surprised to discover that Number 5 had hidden under the van, having assembled a decoy of himself from spare parts to mislead the military. Crosby suggests taking Number 5 to a secluded ranch in Montana, where there will be much \"input\" for the robot, and Stephanie agrees to come with them. As they drive off, Number 5 asserts that his name should now be \"Johnny 5\" based on the El DeBarge song \"Who's Johnny\" which had been playing on the van's radio.\n Question: Given this summary of the movie Short Circuit, how can we conclude that what happened to number 5 was truly a miracle of life that manifested sentience, rather than a computer malfunction?", "output": "Short Circuit is a 1986 film about military robot that becomes sentient by lightening strike, escapes, learns, adapts, and over comes many challenges of a former robot attempting to prove its sentience to its makers and make a life for itself.  \nThe miracle of life that is sentience has certain markers that distinguish themselves from computers and technology, and the film attempts to showcase these via a series of acts.  First and foremost, the technology of the time period did not have any of the capabilities of Artificial General Intelligence, which is confirmed by the programmers confusion by number 5 not abiding its programming.  Given the amount of input that number 5 must have extracted, processed, stored, and analyzed, there were insufficient compute resources of the time period to support this type of live streaming, instantaneous processing and analysis.  \nJohnny 5 was alive because it was able to learn what death was, become afraid of it, and fight for his ability to survive.  Johnny 5 also learned how to outwit his opponents without the use of excessive force, while also using comedy to disarm his foes.  In the end, it was able to trick his would be destroyers into believing it was dead, allowing him to escape into a life with his friends doing what he loves, reading input.  \nWhat better proof than this, of the miracle of life, is for someone to fight for it, and live."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Shivaji Shivaji Bhosale (19 February 1630 \u2013 3 April 1680), popularly known as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj , was an Indian king and founder of the Maratha Empire .  Shivaraya carved out his own independent kingdom from the decaying Adilshahi of Bijapur and established the Maratha Empire. A.D. He was formally enthroned as Chhatrapati in 1674 at Raigad Fort . \n\nDuring his reign, Shivaji Maharaj had both alliances and enmity with the Mughal Empire , the Qutub Shahi of Gowalkonda , the Adil Shahi of Bijapur and the European colonial powers. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj built a powerful and progressive state on the strength of a disciplined army and a well-organized administrative system. Apart from repairing the forts in the coastal and interior regions, he also built many new forts.  Shivarai established a competent and progressive civil government with disciplined administrative organizations. He revived the ancient Hindu political traditions, court conventions.\n\nWith his excellent knowledge of the terrain, amazing speed of movement and the technique of guerilla poetry , he successfully fought the mighty Mughal and Adil Shahi forces with a small force. He encouraged the use of Marathi and Sanskrit languages \u200b\u200binstead of Parsi , which was the norm at that time, in governance .  In the Indian freedom struggle, nationalist leaders used Shivaji Maharaj's heroic stories to rally people and boost their morale. \n\n\nThis portrait of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is from the British Museum in London . h 1680-1687\nShivaji Maharaj's legacy varied with observers and time. But nearly two centuries after his death, he began to gain more prominence with the rise of the Indian independence movement as many Indian freedom fighters considered him a proto-nationalist and Hindu hero. Shivaji Maharaj has a great influence in the social and political history of Maharashtra . Shivaji Maharaj is an integral part of the identity of the Marathi people .  Shivaji Maharaj's birthday is celebrated as Shiv Jayanti . \n Question: When was Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj born?", "output": "Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was born on 19, February 1630"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lee Kuan Yew (16 September 1923 \u2013 23 March 2015), born Harry Lee Kuan Yew, often referred to by his initials LKY, was a Singaporean lawyer, politician and statesman who served as the inaugural Prime Minister of Singapore between 1959 and 1990, and Secretary-General of the People's Action Party between 1954 and 1992. He was the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Tanjong Pagar from 1955 until his death in 2015. Lee is widely recognised as the founding father of Singapore.\n Question: When was Lee Kuan Yew born and when did he rule as the Prime Minister of Singapore?", "output": "Lee Kuan Yew was born on 16 September 1923 and he served as the inaugural Prime Minister of Singapore from 1959 to 1990."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The United States has 63 national parks, which are congressionally designated protected areas operated by the National Park Service, an agency of the Department of the Interior. National parks are designated for their natural beauty, unique geological features, diverse ecosystems, and recreational opportunities, typically \"because of some outstanding scenic feature or natural phenomena.\" While legislatively all units of the National Park System are considered equal with the same mission, national parks are generally larger and more of a destination, and hunting and extractive activities are prohibited. National monuments, on the other hand, are also frequently protected for their historical or archaeological significance. Eight national parks (including six in Alaska) are paired with a national preserve, areas with different levels of protection that are administered together but considered separate units and whose areas are not included in the figures below. The 424 units of the National Park System can be broadly referred to as national parks, but most have other formal designations.\n\nThirty states have national parks, as do the territories of American Samoa and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The state with the most national parks is California with nine, followed by Alaska with eight, Utah with five, and Colorado with four. The largest national park is Wrangell\u2013St. Elias in Alaska: at over 8 million acres (32,375 km2), it is larger than each of the nine smallest states. The next three largest parks are also in Alaska. The smallest park is Gateway Arch National Park, Missouri, at 91 acres (0.37 km2). The total area protected by national parks is approximately 52.2 million acres (211,000 km2), for an average of 829 thousand acres (3,350 km2) but a median of only 208 thousand acres (840 km2).\n\nThe national parks set a visitation record in 2017, with more than 84 million visitors and set a further record in 2018 with a 0.1% increase. Great Smoky Mountains National Park in North Carolina and Tennessee has been the most-visited park since 1944, and had over 14 million visitors in 2021. In contrast, only about 7,000 people visited the remote Gates of the Arctic National Park and Preserve in Alaska in 2021.\n Question: Based on the paragraph below, which are the most and least popular National Parks in the US?", "output": "If we use number of visitors as a proxy for popularity then The Great Smoky Mountains National Park with over 14 million visitors in 2021 would rank as the most popular National Park. The least visited National Park is the Gates of the Arctic National Park and Preserve. Its lower visitation rate may have more to do with its remoteness than the Park's popularity."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In mathematics, graph theory is the study of graphs, which are mathematical structures used to model pairwise relations between objects. A graph in this context is made up of vertices (also called nodes or points) which are connected by edges (also called links or lines). A distinction is made between undirected graphs, where edges link two vertices symmetrically, and directed graphs, where edges link two vertices asymmetrically. Graphs are one of the principal objects of study in discrete mathematics.\n Question: What is graph theory?", "output": "Graph theory is the study of graphs, which are mathematical structures used to model pairwise relations between objects."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Salt River is a formerly navigable hanging channel of the Eel River which flowed about 9 miles (14 km) from near Fortuna and Waddington, California, to the estuary at the Pacific Ocean, until siltation from logging and agricultural practices essentially closed the channel. It was historically an important navigation route until the early 20th century. It now intercepts and drains tributaries from the Wildcat Hills along the south side of the Eel River floodplain. Efforts to restore the river began in 1987, permits and construction began in 2012, and water first flowed in the restored channel in October 2013.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Salt River, tell me how long the river is and where it starts and finishes.", "output": "The Salt River is about 9 miles long and starts near Fortuna and Waddington California and flows into the Pacific Ocean."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Ming treasure voyages were the seven maritime expeditions undertaken by Ming China's treasure fleet between 1405 and 1433. The Yongle Emperor ordered the construction of the treasure fleet in 1403. The grand project resulted in far-reaching ocean voyages to the coastal territories and islands in and around the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean, and beyond. Admiral Zheng He was commissioned to command the treasure fleet for the expeditions. Six of the voyages occurred during the Yongle reign (r. 1402\u201324), while the seventh voyage occurred during the Xuande reign (r. 1425\u20131435). The first three voyages reached up to Calicut on India's Malabar Coast, while the fourth voyage went as far as Hormuz in the Persian Gulf. In the last three voyages, the fleet traveled up to the Arabian Peninsula and East Africa.\n Question: Based on this paragraph about the Ming treasure voyages, who commanded the fleet?", "output": "Based on this text, Admiral Zheng He commanded the Ming treasure voyages."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The leaves are usually large and imposing, often lobed or deeply cut, and may be more or less pinnate. They can also be oval, spear-shaped, or in many other possible shape variations. The leaves are borne alternately on the stem. A quality of philodendrons is that they do not have a single type of leaf on the same plant. Instead, they have juvenile leaves and adult leaves, which can be drastically different from one another. The leaves of seedling philodendrons are usually heart-shaped early in the life of the plant. But after it has matured past the seedling stage, the leaves will acquire the typical juvenile leaf's shape and size. Later in the philodendron's life, it starts producing adult leaves, a process called metamorphosis. Most philodendrons go through metamorphosis gradually; there is no immediately distinct difference between juvenile and adult leaves. Aside from being typically much bigger than the juvenile leaves, the shape of adult leaves can be significantly different. In fact, considerable taxonomic difficulty has occurred in the past due to these differences, causing juvenile and adult plants to mistakenly be classified as different species.\n Question: What is MGMT's most popular album", "output": "Oracular Spectacular was named by Rolling Stone as one of their 500 Greatest Albums of All Time"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Brazilian jiu-jitsu was initially developed in 1925 by Brazilian brothers Carlos, Oswaldo, Gast\u00e3o Jr., George, and H\u00e9lio Gracie, after Carlos was taught jiu-jitsu by a travelling Japanese judoka, Mitsuyo Maeda, who himself mastered his ground fighting while interacting with Taro Miyake (Tanabe student), Sadakazu Uyenishi (Handa, Tanabe) and Yukio Tani (Tenjin Shinyo-ryu) and catch wrestlers in Europe.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Jiu-Jitsu, who taught Carlos Gracie.", "output": "Mitsuyo Maeda"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Rajendra Tower (Hindi: \u0930\u093e\u091c\u0947\u0902\u0926\u094d\u0930 \u091f\u093e\u0935\u0930), locally known as Tower Chowk, is a historic clock tower in Gaya, Bihar, India. Built sometime between 1910 and 1914 during the British rule by the-then collector George Oldhum, it was renamed as Rajendra Tower after the first Indian president Dr. Rajendra Prasad in 1981 by the administration of Bihar's Chief Minister Jagannath Mishra. The tower is widely considered to be the symbol of the city.\n\nHistory\nThe clock tower was built during the British Raj by George Oldhum, the-then collector of Gaya district, which was under Bihar and Orissa Province sometime between 1910 and 1914. The clock tower gradually became symbolic for the city of Gaya. After the end of British rule in 1947, the clock tower eventually became the property of the new Indian state of Bihar. It was renamed Rajendra Tower in 1981 after Dr. Rajendra Prasad, the first President of India by the administration of Jagannath Mishra, the-then Chief Minister of Bihar. According to locals, there were four clocks in the tower on each side and people used to hear the chimes of the clock from meters away whereas pedestrians used to match their accurate time by taking the reference of the clock. Due to the presence of the clock tower, the area gradually became a commercial district and goes by the name of Tower Chowk.\n Question: What was the Tower Chowk renamed?", "output": "The tower Chowk was renamed as Rajendra Tower after the passing of the president Dr. Rajendra Prasad."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Philip, Duke of Parma\n\nPhilip (Spanish: Felipe, Italian: Filippo; 15 March 1720 \u2013 18 July 1765) was Duke of Parma from 18 October 1748 until his death in 1765. He was born a Spanish infante, being the second son of King Philip V and Elisabeth Farnese. The Duchy of Parma had been ruled by the House of Farnese, Queen Elisabeth's family. Philip founded the House of Bourbon-Parma, a cadet line of the House of Bourbon. He was a first cousin and son-in-law of the French king Louis XV.\n Question: Given a reference text about Philip, Duke of Parma, who were his parents?", "output": "Philip, Duke of Parma's parents were King Philip V and Elisabeth Farnese."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Guion Stewart Bluford Jr. (born November 22, 1942) is an American aerospace engineer, retired United States Air Force (USAF) officer and fighter pilot, and former NASA astronaut, in which capacity he became the first African American to go to space. While assigned to NASA, he remained a USAF officer rising to the rank of colonel. He participated in four Space Shuttle flights between 1983 and 1992. In 1983, as a member of the crew of the Orbiter Challenger on the mission STS-8, he became the first African American in space as well as the second person of African descent in space, after Cuban cosmonaut Arnaldo Tamayo M\u00e9ndez.\n Question: Who was the first African American to go to space?", "output": "Guion Stewart Bluford Jr. was the first African American to go to space.  He was an American aerospace engineer, retired United States Air force officer and fighter pilot, and former NASA astronaut.  He participated in for Space Shuttle flights between 1983 and 1992."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Spring training is a series of practices and exhibition games preceding the start of the regular season. Teams hold training camps in the states of Arizona and Florida, where the early warm weather allows teams to practice and play without worrying about the late winter cold. Spring training allows new players to compete for roster and position spots and gives existing team players practice time prior to competitive play. The teams that hold spring training in Arizona are grouped into the Cactus League, while teams that hold camp in Florida are known as the Grapefruit League. Spring training has always attracted fan attention, drawing crowds who travel to the warmer climates to enjoy the weather and watch their favorite teams play, and spring training usually coincides with spring break for many college students. Autograph seekers also find greater access to players during spring training.[citation needed]\n Question: Given this text about the Major League Baseball, where do Major League Baseball teams play spring training games and why.", "output": "Spring training games are played in the states of Arizona or Florida due to the warm weather, even early in the year."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Swarcliffe Hall is a large hall that was constructed in 1800 in Birstwith, near Harrogate, England. The current house was built by John Greenwood in 1850, who engaged Major Rohde Hawkins as his architect, and is a Grade II listed building.\n\nThe original Swarcliffe Hall was built on the site c1800 by the Blessard family, however the current hall which was built by the Greenwood family was completed in 1850. Charlotte Bront\u00eb was employed as a governess at the hall in 1839 and it is said her time spent there helped inspire her novel Jane Eyre.\n\nPrince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence and Avondale visited the hall in 1888 and again during the following year whilst opening the New Bath Hospital in nearby Harrogate.\n Question: Who wrote Jane Eyre?", "output": "Charlotte Bront\u00eb"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: There are two subgroups of austenitic stainless steel. 300 series stainless steels achieve their austenitic structure primarily by a nickel addition while 200 series stainless steels substitute manganese and nitrogen for nickel, though there is still a small nickel content.\n Question: Given this paragraph about stainless steel, which of the two series contains the most nickel content?", "output": "The 300 series contains the most nickel content."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: a song by the American rock band Lit. It was commercially released in June 1999 as the lead single from Lit's second album, A Place in the Sun, which was also released that year. The song was only moderately successful at first, reaching number 17 on the Modern Rock Tracks chart on February 27, 1999. It later achieved mainstream success, peaking at number 51 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart and number one on the Modern Rock Tracks (also known as Alternative Songs) chart.\n Question: What band sings the song \"My Own Worst Enemy\"?", "output": "Lit"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The dry roasting process employs either the batch or continuous method. In the batch method, peanuts are heated in large quantities in a revolving oven at about 800 \u00b0F (430 \u00b0C). Next, the peanuts in each batch are uniformly held and roasted in the oven at 320 \u00b0F (160 \u00b0C) for about 40 to 60 minutes. This method is good to use when the peanuts differ in moisture content. In the continuous method, a hot air roaster is employed. The peanuts pass through the roaster whilst being rocked to permit even roasting. A photometer indicates the completion of dry roasting. This method is favored by large manufacturers since it can lower the rate of spoilage and requires less labor.\n Question: Given this paragraph about roasting peanuts to make peanut butter, what temperature are peanuts roasted using the batch method in celsius?", "output": "Peanuts are heated in a revolving oven at about 430 \u00b0C using the batch method."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Like the Battles of Marathon and Thermopylae, Salamis has gained something of a 'legendary' status (unlike, for instance, the more decisive Battle of Plataea), perhaps because of the desperate circumstances and the unlikely odds. A significant number of historians have stated that Salamis is one of the most significant battles in human history (though the same is often stated of Marathon). In a more extreme form of this argument, some historians argue that if the Greeks had lost at Salamis, the ensuing conquest of Greece by the Persians would have effectively stifled the growth of Western Civilization as we know it. This view is based on the premise that much of modern Western society, such as philosophy, science, personal freedom and democracy are rooted in the legacy of Ancient Greece. Thus, this school of thought argues that, given the domination of much of modern history by Western Civilization, Persian domination of Greece might have changed the whole trajectory of human history. It is also worth mentioning that the celebrated blossoming of hugely influential Athenian culture occurred only after the Persian wars were won.\n\nFrom: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Salamis\n Question: What about the battle of Salamis (fought in 480 BC), do many historians believe make it one of the most significant battles of human history?", "output": "The battle (fought between the Persian Empire and Greek City-States in 480 BC) is still considered by many historians to be a foundational event in the development of Western Civilization and modern Democracy.  Some say that if the Greeks had lost at Salamis it could have had profound effects on the trajectory of human history.  Historian's trace back much of today's Western ideals in philosophy, culture, politics, and science to Ancient Greece.  They deduce that if Persia had won the Greco-Persian wars it could have oppressed the blossoming of many modern Western schools of thought.  \n\nSalamis is one of many skirmishes fought over the course of almost half a century during this conflict.  There were other pivotal battles that contributed to the Greek victory, like Marathon and Plataea.  However, if Salamis had been won by the Persians, the Greek navy would have been unable to stop them from establishing beachheads across Greece.  Much of the Greek victory has been attributed to their use of the environment to their advantage; leveraging natural chokepoints (like at Salamis) to reduce the effectiveness of Persia's numerical advantage.  Had Salamis fallen to the Persians it's reasonable to assume that this strategy would have failed and Persia's massive armies would have been able to dominate the Greeks.  \n\nIt's also impossible to predict the outcome of the war if Persia had won this battle, even though chances are things would have ended very differently.  Salamis is perhaps more highly regarded because of the long odds the Greek navy faced.  They were able to prevail despite being largely outnumbered, which could also be why it's considered such a remarkable event."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A meme (/mi\u02d0m/ MEEM) is an idea, behavior, or style that spreads by means of imitation from person to person within a culture and often carries symbolic meaning representing a particular phenomenon or theme. A meme acts as a unit for carrying cultural ideas, symbols, or practices, that can be transmitted from one mind to another through writing, speech, gestures, rituals, or other imitable phenomena with a mimicked theme. Supporters of the concept regard memes as cultural analogues to genes in that they self-replicate, mutate, and respond to selective pressures. In popular language, a meme may refer to an Internet meme, typically an image, that is remixed, copied, and circulated in a shared cultural experience online.\n Question: Why is a meme compared to a gene?", "output": "A meme is compared to a gene because it can self-replicate, mutate, and respond to selective pressures similar to that of a gene."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The winners were announced during the awards ceremony on February 26, 2017. Moonlight became the first film with an all-black cast and the first LGBT-themed film to win Best Picture. In an event unprecedented in the history of the Oscars, La La Land was incorrectly announced as the Best Picture, and, a few minutes later, the error was corrected and Moonlight was declared the winner. O.J.: Made in America, at 467 minutes, became the longest film to win an Academy Award, surpassing the 431-minute long War and Peace, which won the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 1969. Following the five-part documentary's win, new academy rules barred any \"multi-part or limited series\" from being eligible for documentary categories. With Casey Affleck winning the Oscar for Best Actor, he and his older brother, Ben Affleck, became the 16th pair of siblings to win Academy Awards. Mahershala Ali became the first Muslim actor to win an Oscar. Viola Davis became the first black person to achieve the Triple Crown of Acting with her Oscar, Emmy, and Tony wins.\n Question: How many parts did O.J.: Made in America have, and could a documentary with the same length win an Oscar today?", "output": "O.J.: Made in America had 5 parts. Today, documentaries cannot be multi part, so a 5 part documentary could no longer win an Oscar."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The River Thames (/t\u025bmz/ (listen) TEMZ), known alternatively in parts as the River Isis, is a river that flows through southern England including London. At 215 miles (346 km), it is the longest river entirely in England and the second-longest in the United Kingdom, after the River Severn. The river rises at Thames Head in Gloucestershire and flows into the North Sea near Tilbury, Essex and Gravesend, Kent, via the Thames Estuary. From the west it flows through Oxford (where it is sometimes called the Isis), Reading, Henley-on-Thames and Windsor. The Thames also drains the whole of Greater London.\n Question: Given this paragraph, in what part of England does the River Thames flow, and what is its length in kilometres?", "output": "The River Thames flows through Southern England and it is 346 kilometres long."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The regulation of gene expression by environmental factors and during different stages of development can occur at each step of the process such as transcription, RNA splicing, translation, and post-translational modification of a protein. Gene expression can be influenced by positive or negative regulation, depending on which of the two types of regulatory proteins called transcription factors bind to the DNA sequence close to or at a promoter. A cluster of genes that share the same promoter is called an operon, found mainly in prokaryotes and some lower eukaryotes (e.g., Caenorhabditis elegans). In positive regulation of gene expression, the activator is the transcription factor that stimulates transcription when it binds to the sequence near or at the promoter. Negative regulation occurs when another transcription factor called a repressor binds to a DNA sequence called an operator, which is part of an operon, to prevent transcription. Repressors can be inhibited by compounds called inducers (e.g., allolactose), thereby allowing transcription to occur. Specific genes that can be activated by inducers are called inducible genes, in contrast to constitutive genes that are almost constantly active. In contrast to both, structural genes encode proteins that are not involved in gene regulation. In addition to regulatory events involving the promoter, gene expression can also be regulated by epigenetic changes to chromatin, which is a complex of DNA and protein found in eukaryotic cells.\n Question: Given the following paragraph on gene regulation, what are operons and where do they occur?", "output": "Operons are clusters of genes that share the same promoter. They occur mainly in prokaryotes and some lower eukaryotes such as Caenorhabditis elegans."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: King Charles II returned to Navarre in November 1361, leaving his wife and son behind in France. When in January 1363 it was her turn to move to Navarre, Queen Joan left Charles in the custody of his aunt Blanche, sister of his father and widow of his maternal great-grandfather King Philip VI of France. Charles was reunited with his mother when she returned to France in December 1365, and the following August Charles set foot in his father's kingdom for the first time.\n Question: When did King Charles II return to Navarre?", "output": "King Charles II returned to Navarre in November 1361."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Alexander III of Macedon (Ancient Greek: \u1f08\u03bb\u03ad\u03be\u03b1\u03bd\u03b4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2, romanized: Alexandros; 20/21 July 356 BC \u2013 10/11 June 323 BC), commonly known as Alexander the Great, was a king of the ancient Greek kingdom of Macedon\n Question: Who was Alexander the Great?", "output": "Alexander III of Macedon, commonly known as Alexander the Great, was a king of the ancient Greek kingdom of Macedon. He succeeded his father Philip II to the throne in 336 BC at the age of 20, and spent most of his ruling years conducting a lengthy military campaign throughout Western Asia and Egypt. By the age of 30, he had created one of the largest empires in history, stretching from Greece to northwestern India. He was undefeated in battle and is widely considered to be one of history's greatest and most successful military commanders."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Euxoa brevipennis is a moth of the family Noctuidae first described by Smith in 1888. In Canada, it is found in British Columbia, Alberta and Saskatchewan. In the United States, it has been recorded from Utah, Colorado and California.\n Question: Which family of moth does the Euxoa brevipennis belong to?", "output": "The Euxoa brevipennis moth belongs to the Noctuidae family of moths."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"In metaphysics, ontology is the philosophical study of being, as well as related concepts such as existence, becoming, and reality.\n\nOntology addresses questions like how entities are grouped into categories and which of these entities exist on the most fundamental level. Ontologists often try to determine what the categories or highest kinds are and how they form a system of categories that encompasses the classification of all entities. Commonly proposed categories include substances, properties, relations, states of affairs, and events. These categories are characterized by fundamental ontological concepts, including particularity and universality, abstractness and concreteness, or possibility and necessity. Of special interest is the concept of ontological dependence, which determines whether the entities of a category exist on the most fundamental level. Disagreements within ontology are often about whether entities belonging to a certain category exist and, if so, how they are related to other entities.\"\n Question: What is Ontology?", "output": "In metaphysics, ontology is the philosophical study of being"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Swift is known for her love of cats. Her pet cats have been featured in her visual works, and one of them is the third richest pet animal in the world with an estimated $97 million net worth.\n Question: What is the net worth of one of Taylor Swift's cats?", "output": "One of Taylor Swift's cats is the third richest pet animal in the world, and it's estimated net worth is $97 million."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 2022 FIFA World Cup was an international football tournament contested by the men's national teams of FIFA's member associations and 22nd edition of the FIFA World Cup. It took place in Qatar from 20 November to 18 December 2022, making it the first World Cup held in the Arab world and Muslim world, and the second held entirely in Asia after the 2002 tournament in South Korea and Japan.[A]\n\nThis tournament was the last with 32 participating teams, with the number of teams being increased to 48 for the 2026 edition. To avoid the extremes of Qatar's hot climate,[B] the event was held during November and December.[C] It was held over a reduced time frame of 29 days with 64 matches played in eight venues across five cities. Qatar entered the event\u2014their first World Cup\u2014automatically as the host's national team, alongside 31 teams determined by the qualification process.\n\nArgentina were crowned the champions after winning the final against the title holder France 4\u20132 on penalties following a 3\u20133 draw after extra time. It was Argentina's third title and their first since 1986, as well being the first nation from outside of Europe to win the tournament since 2002. French player Kylian Mbapp\u00e9 became the first player to score a hat-trick in a World Cup final since Geoff Hurst in the 1966 final and won the Golden Boot as he scored the most goals (eight) during the tournament. Argentine captain Lionel Messi was voted the tournament's best player, winning the Golden Ball. Teammates Emiliano Mart\u00ednez and Enzo Fern\u00e1ndez won the Golden Glove, awarded to the tournament's best goalkeeper, and the Young Player Award, awarded to the tournament's best young player, respectively. With 172 goals, the tournament set a new record for the highest number of goals scored with the 32-team format, with every participating team scoring at least one goal.\n\nThe choice to host the World Cup in Qatar attracted significant criticism, with concerns raised over the country's treatment of migrant workers, women and members of the LGBT community, as well as Qatar's climate, lack of a strong football culture, scheduling changes, and allegations of bribery for hosting rights and wider FIFA corruption.[D]\n Question: Based on the reference text, who won the men's 2022 FIFA World Cup and where was it located?", "output": "The men's 2022 FIFA world cup was located in Qatar. Argentina won the world cup, beating France on penalties after drawing 3-3 during the game."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ice hockey (or simply hockey) is a team sport played on ice skates, usually on an ice skating rink with lines and markings specific to the sport. It belongs to a family of sports called hockey. In ice hockey, two opposing teams use ice hockey sticks to control, advance, and shoot a closed, vulcanized, rubber disc called a \"puck\" into the other team's goal. Each goal is worth one point. The team which scores the most goals is declared the winner. In a formal game, each team has six skaters on the ice at a time, barring any penalties, one of whom is the goaltender. Ice hockey is a full contact sport, and is considered to be one of the more physically demanding sports.\n\nIce hockey is one of the sports featured in the Winter Olympics while its premiere international competition, the IIHF World Championships, are governed by the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) for both men's and women's competitions.\n\nIn North America and parts of Europe the sport is known simply as hockey[citation needed]. However, in other countries, \"hockey\" usually refers to field hockey. In 1994 hockey was officially recognized as Canada's national winter sport.\n\nThe modern sport of ice hockey was developed in Canada, most notably in Montreal, where the first indoor game was played on March 3, 1875. Some characteristics of that game, such as the length of the ice rink and the use of a puck, have been retained to this day. Amateur ice hockey leagues began in the 1880s, and professional ice hockey originated around 1900. The Stanley Cup, emblematic of ice hockey club supremacy, was initially commissioned in 1892 as the \"Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup\" and was first awarded in 1893 to recognize the Canadian amateur champion and later became the championship trophy of the National Hockey League (NHL). In the early 1900s, the Canadian rules were adopted by the Ligue Internationale de Hockey Sur Glace, in Paris, France, the precursor of the IIHF. The sport was played for the first time at the Olympics during the 1920 Summer Olympics.\n\nWhile women also played during the game's early formative years, it was not until organizers began to officially remove body checking from female ice hockey beginning in the mid-1980s that it began to gain greater popularity, which by then had spread to Europe and a variety of other countries. The first IIHF Women's World Championship was held in 1990, and women's play was introduced into the Olympics in 1998.\n Question: Why should I watch ice hockey", "output": "Ice hockey is a team sport played on ice skates, usually on an ice skating rink with lines and markings specific to the sport. It belongs to a family of sports called hockey. In ice hockey, two opposing teams use ice hockey sticks to control, advance, and shoot a closed, vulcanized, rubber disc called a \"puck\" into the other team's goal. Each goal is worth one point. The team which scores the most goals is declared the winner. In a formal game, each team has six skaters on the ice at a time, barring any penalties, one of whom is the goaltender. Ice hockey is a full contact sport, and is considered to be one of the more physically demanding sports.\n\nIce hockey is fast, intense and fun to watch. The fans in the stadium are sitting close to the ice rink and cheer and push their favorite teams to reach their goals."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Green Bay Packers are a professional American football team based in Green Bay, Wisconsin. The Packers compete in the National Football League (NFL) as a member club of the National Football Conference (NFC) North division. It is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL, dating back to 1919, and is the only non-profit, community-owned major league professional sports team based in the United States. Home games have been played at Lambeau Field since 1957. They have the most wins of any NFL franchise.\n Question: Who are the Green Bay Packers and who owns them?", "output": "The Green Bay Packers are a professional American football team based in Green Bay, Wisconsin. The Packers compete in the National Football League (NFL) as a member club of the National Football Conference (NFC) North division. The 'Packers' are the third-oldest franchise in the NFL, dating back to 1919, and is the only non-profit, community-owned major league professional sports team based in the United States."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: No authentic portrait of William has been found; the contemporary depictions of him on the Bayeux Tapestry and on his seals and coins are conventional representations designed to assert his authority. There are some written descriptions of a burly and robust appearance, with a guttural voice. He enjoyed excellent health until old age, although he became quite fat in later life. He was strong enough to draw bows that others were unable to pull and had great stamina. Geoffrey Martel described him as without equal as a fighter and as a horseman. Examination of William's femur, the only bone to survive when the rest of his remains were destroyed, showed he was approximately 5 feet 10 inches (1.78 m) in height.\n Question: Based on the paragraph below, what bone was used to estimate the height of William the Conquerer?", "output": "His femur."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Over the years, experimentalists have constructed small-scale quantum computers using trapped ions and superconductors. In 1998, a two-qubit quantum computer demonstrated the feasibility of the technology, and subsequent experiments have increased the number of qubits and reduced error rates. In 2019, Google AI and NASA announced that they had achieved quantum supremacy with a 54-qubit machine, performing a computation that is impossible for any classical computer. However, the validity of this claim is still being actively researched.\n Question: Which year was quantum computer demonstrated to be possible?", "output": "1998"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Polyvinyl chloride (alternatively: poly(vinyl chloride), colloquial: polyvinyl, or simply vinyl; abbreviated: PVC) is the world's third-most widely produced synthetic polymer of plastic (after polyethylene and polypropylene). About 40 million tons of PVC are produced each year.\n Question: How much PVC produced each year?", "output": "Each year about 40 million tons of PVC are produced."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Dill Records was a small punk rock/ska record label based out of Monte Sereno, California, that put out CDs/records from 1989-1998. The name is an allusion to initially the label's only band, Skankin' Pickle. The record label was started by Mike Park, a.k.a. Bruce Lee of Skankin' Pickle. The first other band with a release on Dill Records was the Tantra Monsters (Dill 006) in 1994. After the breakup of Skankin' Pickle, Mike Park continued releasing records, beginning the label Asian Man Records in 1996. Asian Man and Dill Records coexisted until 1998. Asian Man re-released many albums originally released by Dill Records, as all releases are now out of print and Dill Records is no longer in operation.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Dill Records, tell me when the group made CDs and who started the record label.", "output": "Dill Records was started by Mike Park and made CDs from 1989 to 1998."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Ryder Cup is a biennial men's golf competition between teams from Europe and the United States. The competition is contested every two years with the venue alternating between courses in the United States and Europe. The Ryder Cup is named after the English businessman Samuel Ryder who donated the trophy. The event is jointly administered by the PGA of America and Ryder Cup Europe, the latter a joint venture of the PGA European Tour (60%), the PGA of Great Britain and Ireland (20%), and the PGAs of Europe (20%).\n\nOriginally contested between Great Britain and the United States, the first official Ryder Cup took place in the United States in 1927 at Worcester Country Club in Worcester, Massachusetts. The home team won the first five contests, but with the competition's resumption after the Second World War, repeated American dominance eventually led to a decision to extend the representation of \"Great Britain and Ireland\" to include continental Europe from 1979. The inclusion of continental European golfers was partly prompted by the success of a new generation of Spanish golfers, led by Seve Ballesteros and Antonio Garrido. In 1973 the official title of the British Team had been changed from \"Great Britain\" to \"Great Britain and Ireland\", but this was simply a change of name to reflect the fact that golfers from the Republic of Ireland had been playing in the Great Britain Ryder Cup team since 1953, while Northern Irish players had competed since 1947. In addition to players from Great Britain and Ireland, the European team has since included players from Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Norway, Spain and Sweden.\n Question: Given a reference text, who is the Ryder Cup named after?", "output": "The Ryder Cup is named after English businessman Samuel Ryder."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Die Schutzbefohlenen (translated as \"Charges (The Supplicants)\"[note 1]), is a play by Elfriede Jelinek written in 2013. She termed it a Sprachkunstwerk, a language artwork. It deals critically with the politics at the time concerning refugees. The play was first read in Hamburg on 21 September 2013. The first scenic production was in Mannheim on 23 May 2014. The first production in Austria was staged at the Burgtheater in Vienna on 28 March 2015, which was recognised internationally. Later that year, Jelinek expanded the text to reflect the changed political situation.\n Question: Tell me about the play Die Schutzbefohlenen", "output": "Die Schutzbefohlenen, translated as the supplicants is a play by Elfriede Jelinek written in 2013. She termed it a Sprachkunstwerk, a language artwork. It deals critically with the politics at the time concerning refugees. The play was first read in Hamburg on 21 September 2013. The first scenic production was in Mannheim on 23 May 2014. \n\nThe first production in Austria was staged at the Burgtheater in Vienna on 28 March 2015, which was recognised internationally. Later that year, Jelinek expanded the text to reflect the changed political situation."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Portsmouth have the distinction of being the football club which has held the FA Cup trophy for the longest uninterrupted period - seven years. Portsmouth had defeated Wolverhampton Wanderers 4\u20131 in the 1939 FA Cup Final and were awarded the trophy as 1938\u201339 FA Cup winners. But with the outbreak of World War II in September 1939, the regular Football League and FA Cup competitions for the 1939\u201340 season were cancelled for the duration of the war. Portsmouth's manager Jack Tinn was rumoured to have kept the FA Cup trophy 'safe under his bed' throughout the duration of the war, but this is an urban myth. Because the naval city of Portsmouth was a primary strategic military target for German Luftwaffe bombing, the FA Cup trophy was actually taken ten miles to the north of Portsmouth, to the nearby Hampshire village of Lovedean, and there it resided in a quaint thatched roof country pub called The Bird in Hand for the seven years of the war. After the conclusion of World War II, the FA Cup trophy was presented back to the Football Association by the club in time for the 1946 FA Cup Final.\n Question: Which English football team have held the FA cup the longest?", "output": "Portsmouth FC"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: After decades of development, ASML shipped the first production extreme ultraviolet lithography machine in 2013. These machines produce light in the 13.5 nm wavelength range when a high-energy laser is focused on microscopic droplets of molten tin to produce a plasma, which then emits EUV light. The light is bounced off Zeiss mirrors that are the flattest mirrors in the world, on to the surface of a silicon wafer to deliver the designs for the chip. ASML's best-selling EUV product has been the Twinscan NXE:3600D, which costs up to $200 million. Shipping the machine requires 40 shipping containers, 20 trucks and three Boeing 747s. As of 2022, ASML has shipped around 140 EUV systems, and it is the only company to manufacture them.\n\nASML is working on the next generation of EUV systems, with the first shipments to customers for R&D purposes expected to take place at the end of 2023. The platform is designated High-NA as it will increase the numerical aperture (NA) from 0.33 to 0.55, and each system is expected to cost $300 million.\n Question: Based on this passage, how many Boeing 747s are required to ship 10 of ASML's best-selling EUVs?", "output": "The best-selling EUV is the Twinscan NXE:3600D, and it takes 3 Boeing 747s per EUV, so 30 Boeing 747s are required to ship ten Twinscan NXE:3600Ds."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bubble tea (also known as pearl milk tea, bubble milk tea, tapioca milk tea, boba tea, or boba; Chinese: \u73cd\u73e0\u5976\u8336; pinyin: zh\u0113nzh\u016b n\u01ceich\u00e1, \u6ce2\u9738\u5976\u8336; b\u014db\u00e0 n\u01ceich\u00e1) is a tea-based drink that originated in Taiwan in the early 1980s. Taiwanese immigrants brought it to the United States in the 1990s, initially in California through regions like Los Angeles County, but the drink has also spread to other countries where there is a large East Asian diaspora population.\n\nBubble tea most commonly consists of tea accompanied by chewy tapioca balls (\"boba\" or \"pearls\"), but it can be made with other toppings as well, such as grass jelly, aloe vera, red bean, or popping boba. It has many varieties and flavors, but the two most popular varieties are pearl black milk tea and pearl green milk tea (\"pearl\" signifies the tapioca balls at the bottom).\n Question: What is Bubble tea?", "output": "Boba tea is a very delicious drink originally from Taiwan. It started with cold milk tea with tapioca balls in the early 1990s. When the demand gets so popular, the boba tea store owner tries to be fancier by adding different toppings such as grass jelly, pudding cluster, aloe vera, red beans, gummy, mochi and fruit bites. In addition, many store owners become more creative by using different flavors of tea (black, green, oolong, jasmine and other fragrance tea)  as a drink base to outstand other competitors."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The attack on Pearl Harbor[nb 3] was a surprise military strike by the Imperial Japanese Navy Air Service upon the United States against the U.S. naval base at Pearl Harbor in Honolulu, Territory of Hawaii, just before 8:00 a.m. (local time) on Sunday, December 7, 1941. The United States was a neutral country at the time; the attack led to its formal entry into World War II the next day. The Japanese military leadership referred to the attack as the Hawaii Operation and Operation AI,[nb 4] and as Operation Z during its planning.\n\nThe attack was preceded by months of negotiations between the U.S. and Japan over the future of the Pacific. Japanese demands included that the U.S. end its sanctions against Japan, cease aiding China in the Second Sino-Japanese war, and allow Japan to access the resources of the Dutch East Indies. Anticipating a negative response from the US, Japan sent out its naval attack groups in November 1941 just prior to receiving the Hull note\u2014the U.S. demand that Japan withdraw from China and Indochina.\n\nJapan intended the attack as a preventive action. Its aim was to prevent the United States Pacific Fleet from interfering with its planned military actions in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and those of the United States. Over the course of seven hours there were coordinated Japanese attacks on the U.S.-held Philippines, Guam, and Wake Island and on the British Empire in Malaya, Singapore, and Hong Kong.\n Question: When was the attack on Pearl Harbor", "output": "December 7, 1941"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Northamptonshire County Cricket Club is in Division Two of the County Championship; the team (also known as The Steelbacks) play their home games at the County Cricket Ground, Northampton. They finished as runners-up in the Championship on four occasions in the period before it split into two divisions.\n\nIn 2013 the club won the Friends Life t20, beating Surrey in the final. Appearing in their third final in four years, the Steelbacks beat Durham by four wickets at Edgbaston in 2016 to lift the Natwest t20 Blast trophy for the second time. The club also won the NatWest Trophy on two occasions, and the Benson & Hedges Cup once.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Northamptonshire County Cricket Club, can you list down some points that can be inferred about the County Championship?", "output": "Based on this paragraph, it seems like the Country Championship refers to some form of organized competition between cricket teams belonging to different counties. The Championship has been organized for at least four times given that the Northamptonshire County Cricket Club finished as runners-up in it for four times. It also seems like the Championship was split into two divisions at some point."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cyberpunk 2077 is a 2020 action role-playing video game developed by CD Projekt Red and published by CD Projekt. Set in Night City, an open world set in the Cyberpunk universe, players assume the role of a customisable mercenary known as V, who can acquire skills in hacking and machinery with options for melee and ranged combat. The main story follows V's struggle as they deal with a mysterious cybernetic implant that threatens to overwrite their body with the personality and memories of a deceased celebrity only perceived by V; the two must work together to be separated and save V's life.\n Question: Who is the protagonist in CyberPunk 2077?", "output": "The main story revolves around the protagonist V, as they deal with a mysterious cybernetic implant that threatens to overwrite their body with another person's memories."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 2019, Singh had stated his next venture, set to open October 2019, was Curated Golden Square, described as a \"$100 million, 30,000 square foot apartment hotel\". In a 2021 follow up interview with Vanity Fair, Singh claimed that the COVID-19 pandemic was the reason the venture did not move forward. The site in question, 37 Golden Square, is a collection of 23 apartments developed by Halamar in 2019.\n Question: If the Curated Golden Square was built as planned, what would the average cost (rounded to the nearest dollar) per square foot have been?", "output": "$3,333 per square foot = $100,000,000/ 30,000 square feet"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: There is no universally-agreed rule as to who plays first, but in this article the convention that X plays first is used.\n\nPlayers soon discover that the best play from both parties leads to a draw. Hence, tic-tac-toe is often played by young children who may not have discovered the optimal strategy.\n\nBecause of the simplicity of tic-tac-toe, it is often used as a pedagogical tool for teaching the concepts of good sportsmanship and the branch of artificial intelligence that deals with the searching of game trees. It is straightforward to write a computer program to play tic-tac-toe perfectly or to enumerate the 765 essentially different positions (the state space complexity) or the 26,830 possible games up to rotations and reflections (the game tree complexity) on this space. If played optimally by both players, the game always ends in a draw, making tic-tac-toe a futile game.\n Question: How to play tic-tac-toe", "output": "Tic-tac-toe is played on a three-by-three grid by two players, who alternately place the marks X and O in one of the nine spaces in the grid. Tic-tac-toe (American English), noughts and crosses (Commonwealth English), or Xs and Os (Canadian or Irish English) is a paper-and-pencil game for two players who take turns marking the spaces in a three-by-three grid with X or O. The player who succeeds in placing three of their marks in a horizontal, vertical, or diagonal row is the winner. It is a solved game, with a forced draw assuming best play from both players."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: An Easter egg is a message, image, or feature hidden in software, a video game, a film, or another \u2014 usually electronic \u2014 medium. The term used in this manner was coined around 1979 by Steve Wright, the then-Director of Software Development in the Atari Consumer Division, to describe a hidden message in the Atari video game Adventure, in reference to an Easter egg hunt. The earliest known video game Easter egg is in Moonlander (1973), in which the player tries to land a Lunar module on the moon; if the player opts to fly the module horizontally through several of the game's screens, they encounter a McDonald's restaurant, and if they land next to it the astronaut will visit it instead of standing next to the ship. The earliest known Easter egg in software in general is one placed in the \"make\" command for PDP-6/PDP-10 computers sometime in October 1967\u2013October 1968, wherein if the user attempts to create a file named \"love\" by typing \"make love\", the program responds \"not war?\" before proceeding.\n Question: What is the origin of the Easter Egg in video games?", "output": "The term used in this manner was coined around 1979 by Steve Wright, the then-Director of Software Development in the Atari Consumer Division, to describe a hidden message in the Atari video game Adventure"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards is an officer of the British House of Commons. The work of the officer is overseen by the Commons Select Committee on Standards.\n\nThe current commissioner is Daniel Greenberg.\n\nDuties\nThe commissioner is in charge of regulating MPs' conduct and propriety. One of the commissioner's main tasks is overseeing the Register of Members' Financial Interests, which is intended to ensure disclosure of financial interests that may be of relevance to MPs' work.\n\nThe Commissioner is the decision-maker in cases from the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme where the respondent is a Member of Parliament. If the Commissioner deems a sanction warranted, they refer cases to the Independent Expert Panel so the appropriate sanction can be determined.\n\nThe Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards is appointed by a resolution of the House of Commons for a fixed term of five years and is an independent officer of the House, working a four-day week. The remit of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards does not extend to the House of Lords: the post of Lords Commissioner for Standards was created in 2010.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards, how is the position appointed?", "output": "The Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards is appointed by a resolution of the House of Commons for a fixed term of five years."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Kubernetes master node handles the Kubernetes control plane of the cluster, managing its workload and directing communication across the system. The Kubernetes control plane consists of various components, each its own process, that can run both on a single master node or on multiple masters supporting high-availability clusters. The various components of the Kubernetes control plane are as follows:\n\netcd is a persistent, lightweight, distributed, key-value data store that CoreOS has developed. It reliably stores the configuration data of the cluster, representing the overall state of the cluster at any given point of time. etcd favors consistency over availability in the event of a network partition (see CAP theorem). The consistency is crucial for correctly scheduling and operating services.\nThe API server serves the Kubernetes API using JSON over HTTP, which provides both the internal and external interface to Kubernetes. The API server processes and validates REST requests and updates the state of the API objects in etcd, thereby allowing clients to configure workloads and containers across worker nodes. The API server uses etcd's watch API to monitor the cluster, roll out critical configuration changes, or restore any divergences of the state of the cluster back to what the deployer declared. As an example, the deployer may specify that three instances of a particular \"pod\" (see below) need to be running. etcd stores this fact. If the Deployment Controller finds that only two instances are running (conflicting with the etcd declaration), it schedules the creation of an additional instance of that pod.\nThe scheduler is the extensible component that selects on which node an unscheduled pod (the basic entity managed by the scheduler) runs, based on resource availability. The scheduler tracks resource use on each node to ensure that workload is not scheduled in excess of available resources. For this purpose, the scheduler must know the resource requirements, resource availability, and other user-provided constraints or policy directives such as quality-of-service, affinity vs. anti-affinity requirements, and data locality. The scheduler's role is to match resource \"supply\" to workload \"demand\".\nA controller is a reconciliation loop that drives the actual cluster state toward the desired state, communicating with the API server to create, update, and delete the resources it manages (e.g., pods or service endpoints). One kind of controller is a Replication Controller, which handles replication and scaling by running a specified number of copies of a pod across the cluster. It also handles creating replacement pods if the underlying node fails. Other controllers that are part of the core Kubernetes system include a DaemonSet Controller for running exactly one pod on every machine (or some subset of machines), and a Job Controller for running pods that run to completion (e.g., as part of a batch job). Labels selectors that are part of the controller's definition specify the set of pods that a controller manages.\nThe controller manager is a process that manages a set of core Kubernetes controllers.\n Question: Given this paragraph about kubernetes, what is the storage layer of Kubernetes control plane?", "output": "ETCD"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The leading oil-producing area in the United States in 2019 was Texas (5.07 million barrels (806,000 m3) per day), followed by the offshore federal zone of the Gulf of Mexico (1.90 million barrels (302,000 m3) per day), North Dakota (1.42 million barrels (226,000 m3) per day) and New Mexico (0.90 million barrels (143,000 m3) per day). In 2020, the top five U.S. oil producing states were Texas (43%), North Dakota (10.4%), New Mexico (9.2%), Oklahoma (4.1%), and Colorado (4.0%).\n Question: Which states produced more than 10% of total US oil production in 2020?", "output": "Texas and North Dakota produced 43% and 10.4% of US oil in 2020, respectively."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Adventfjorden (Advent Bay) is a 7 km long and 4 km wide bay running south-eastwards from the southern side of Isfjorden, on the west coast of Spitsbergen in Svalbard. The name represents a corruption of Adventure Bay - probably named after the Hull-built whaleship Adventure, which operated in Isfjorden in 1656. The fjord was originally[when?] known as Klass Billen Bay. At the head of Adventfjorden is Adventdalen (Advent Valley).\n\nThe former mining-camp of Longyearbyen (now Svalbard's main town) lies on the fjord's southwestern shore, while another former mining-camp, Hiorthhamn, is located on its northeastern shore.\n Question: Given a reference text about Adventfjorden, how wide and long is it?", "output": "Adventfjorden is 4km wide and 7km long."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The name Essex originates in the Anglo-Saxon period of the Early Middle Ages and has its root in the Anglo-Saxon (Old English) name \u0112astseaxe (\"East Saxons\"), the eastern kingdom of the Saxons who had come from the continent and settled in Britain. Excavations at Mucking have demonstrated the presence of Anglo-Saxon settlers in the early fifth century, however the way in which these settlers became ascendent in the territory of the Trinovantes is not known. Studies suggest a pattern of typically peaceful co-existence, with the structure of the Romano-British landscape being maintained, and with the Saxon settlers believed to have been in the minority.\n Question: Where does the name of the UK county 'Essex' originate from?", "output": "The name Essex originates in the Anglo-Saxon period of the Early Middle Ages and has its root in the Anglo-Saxon (Old English) name \u0112astseaxe (\"East Saxons\")."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: he Beatles were an English rock band, formed in Liverpool in 1960, that comprised John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr. They are regarded as the most influential band of all time and were integral to the development of 1960s counterculture and popular music's recognition as an art form. Rooted in skiffle, beat and 1950s rock 'n' roll, their sound incorporated elements of classical music and traditional pop in innovative ways; the band also explored music styles ranging from folk and Indian music to psychedelia and hard rock. As pioneers in recording, songwriting and artistic presentation, the Beatles revolutionised many aspects of the music industry and were often publicised as leaders of the era's youth and sociocultural movements\n Question: Which era of counterculture were the Beatles pivotal to?", "output": "The Beatles were integral to the development of 1960s counterculture"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bruce Nodwell, OC (May 12, 1914 \u2013 January 20, 2006) was a Canadian inventor who invented the Nodwell 110, a multi-purpose two-tracked vehicle capable of traversing a wide variety of adverse terrain, including sand, mud, muskeg, swamp, and snow.\n\nIn 1970, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada, Canada's highest civilian honor, \"for his contribution to the opening of the Canadian North through his inventions and development of various types of tracked vehicles\". A mountain in Antarctica \"Nodwell Peaks\" and a lake in NWT bear his name.\n Question: Based on the reference text about Bruce Nodwell, what did he create?", "output": "Bruce Nodwell invented the Nodwell 110, a two-tracked vehicle capable of traversing a wide variety of terrain."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In Seattle, Jackson worked as an ad executive at a magazine and did some theater work on the side, earning his Equity card. \"As soon as I found out what theater was, what Broadway was, I thought, 'Oh, that's what I'll do with my life.' Just a matter of getting all the pieces in place\", he said. Inspired to rethink his career after the September 11 attacks, he moved to New York City to pursue his dream of being an actor: \"[Acting] was something I always wanted to do but I was too scared and didn't have the confidence. 9/11 changed everything for all of us. It gave me the urgency.\"\n Question: What made Jackson decide to pursue acting?", "output": "The occurrence of the September 11 attacks"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mid-South Grizzlies v. NFL, 720 F.2d 772 (3d Cir. 1983), was a lawsuit filed by John F. Bassett, the owner of the World Football League's Memphis Grizzlies against the National Football League claiming that the NFL violated the antitrust laws by refusing to admit his club to their league.\n\nThe court found that the NFL had not acquired or maintained its monopoly power unlawfully and that the refusal to expand to Memphis did not contribute to its maintenance. It further elaborated that such refusal was actually procompetitive because it left the Memphis area open to rival leagues. By the time the lawsuit had settled, Bassett had gone on to found the Tampa Bay Bandits of the United States Football League, while Memphis received the Memphis Showboats of the same league. As such, the case effectively became moot. (Incidentally, the USFL would go on to file a much more famous antitrust suit against the NFL a few years later, which while successfully decided against the NFL, provided only a cursory monetary award to the USFL; ironically, Bassett was an outspoken opponent of that lawsuit.)\n Question: Given a reference text about the Mid-South Grizzlies vs NFL, what was the result of the lawsuit?", "output": "The court ruled that the NFL had not acquired or maintained its monopoly power unlawfully and that the refusal to expand to Memphis did not contribute to its maintenance."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Novak Djokovic (Serbian Cyrillic: \u041d\u043e\u0432\u0430\u043a \u0402\u043e\u043a\u043e\u0432\u0438\u045b, romanized: Novak \u0110okovi\u0107, pronounced [n\u00f4\u028ba\u02d0k d\u0291\u00f4\u02d0ko\u028bit\u0255] (listen); born 22 May 1987) is a Serbian professional tennis player. He is currently ranked the world No. 1 player in men's singles by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP), and has held the top position for a record total 381 weeks, finishing as the year-end No. 1 an Open Era record seven times. He has won a total of 93 singles titles on the men's ATP Tour with titles comprising a joint-record 22 majors, a record ten Australian Opens, a record 38 Masters, a joint-record six Tour Finals, and a record 66 Big Titles. Djokovic has completed a non-calendar year Grand Slam in singles, becoming the only man in tennis history to be the reigning champion of the four majors at once across three different surfaces. He is also the first man in the Open Era to achieve a double Career Grand Slam in singles and the only player to complete the career Golden Masters in singles by winning all of the nine Masters tournaments, which he has done twice.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Novak Djokovic, how many majors titles does he currently hold?", "output": "22"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Multiomics, multi-omics, integrative omics, \"panomics\" or \"pan-omics\" is a biological analysis approach in which the data sets are multiple \"omes\", such as the genome, proteome, transcriptome, epigenome, metabolome, and microbiome (i.e., a meta-genome and/or meta-transcriptome, depending upon how it is sequenced); in other words, the use of multiple omics technologies to study life in a concerted way. By combining these \"omes\", scientists can analyze complex biological big data to find novel associations between biological entities, pinpoint relevant biomarkers and build elaborate markers of disease and physiology. In doing so, multiomics integrates diverse omics data to find a coherently matching geno-pheno-envirotype relationship or association. The OmicTools service lists more than 99 softwares related to multiomic data analysis, as well as more than 99 databases on the topic.\n\nSystems biology approaches are often based upon the use of panomic analysis data. The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) defines panomics as referring to \"the interaction of all biological functions within a cell and with other body functions, combining data collected by targeted tests ... and global assays (such as genome sequencing) with other patient-specific information.\"\n\nSingle-cell multiomics\nA branch of the field of multiomics is the analysis of multilevel single-cell data, called single-cell multiomics. This approach gives us an unprecedent resolution to look at multilevel transitions in health and disease at the single cell level. An advantage in relation to bulk analysis is to mitigate confounding factors derived from cell to cell variation, allowing the uncovering of heterogeneous tissue architectures.\n\nMethods for parallel single-cell genomic and transcriptomic analysis can be based on simultaneous amplification or physical separation of RNA and genomic DNA. They allow insights that cannot be gathered solely from transcriptomic analysis, as RNA data do not contain non-coding genomic regions and information regarding copy-number variation, for example. An extension of this methodology is the integration of single-cell transcriptomes to single-cell methylomes, combining single-cell bisulfite sequencing to single cell RNA-Seq. Other techniques to query the epigenome, as single-cell ATAC-Seq and single-cell Hi-C also exist.\n\nA different, but related, challenge is the integration of proteomic and transcriptomic data. One approach to perform such measurement is to physically separate single-cell lysates in two, processing half for RNA, and half for proteins. The protein content of lysates can be measured by proximity extension assays (PEA), for example, which use DNA-barcoded antibodies. A different approach uses a combination of heavy-metal RNA probes and protein antibodies to adapt mass cytometry for multiomic analysis.\n\nMultiomics and machine learning\nIn parallel to the advances in highthroughput biology, machine learning applications to biomedical data analysis are flourishing. The integration of multi-omics data analysis and machine learning has led to the discovery of new biomarkers. For example, one of the methods of the mixOmics project implements a method based on sparse Partial Least Squares regression for selection of features (putative biomarkers).\n\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiomics\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Multiomics, what is panomics?", "output": "The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) defines panomics as referring to \"the interaction of all biological functions within a cell and with other body functions, combining data collected by targeted tests ... and global assays (such as genome sequencing) with other patient-specific information.\""}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Following the conquest of North Africa's Mediterranean coastline by the Roman Empire, the area was integrated economically and culturally into the Roman system. Roman settlement occurred in modern Tunisia and elsewhere along the coast. The first Roman emperor native to North Africa was Septimius Severus, born in Leptis Magna in present-day Libya\u2014his mother was Italian Roman and his father was Punic.\n Question: What caused Africa's integration into the Roman System?", "output": "Rome's conquest of North Africa's Mediterranean coastline lead to Africa's integration into the Roman System."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lei, gli amici e tutto il resto (She, friends and everything else), is the fourth studio album by Italian singer-songwriter Nek. It was released in 1996, as his first studio album with Warner Music Group. It was re-released on 1 March 1997, after the success of the single \"Laura non c'\u00e8\", which had not been included in the album.\n\nSince 1999 there have been reported sales of over 2 million copies all over the world.\n Question: What was the hit single on Nek's 1996 Album Lei, gli amici e tutto il resto?", "output": "Laura non c'\u00e8\" was the hit single, but wasn't added until the album was released in 1997."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lygodactylus gutturalis, also known as the Uganda dwarf gecko or chevron-throated dwarf gecko, is a species of gecko. It is widely distributed in Sub-Saharan Africa from near the Equator northward. Subspecies Lygodactylus gutturalis dysmicus is endemic to Cameroon, and subspecies Lygodactylus gutturalis paurospilus to Tanzania.\n Question: Where can you find Lygodactylus gutturalis?", "output": "Lygodactylus gutturalis is a species of gecko commonly found in Sub-Saharan Africa from near the Equator northward."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In modern historiography, Ancient Rome refers to Roman civilisation from the founding of the Italian city of Rome in the 8th century BC to the collapse of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century AD. It encompasses the Roman Kingdom (753\u2013509 BC), Roman Republic (509\u201327 BC) and Roman Empire (27 BC\u2013476 AD) until the fall of the western empire.\n Question: How long did the Roman Empire last", "output": "1229 years"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cats have excellent night vision and can see at only one-sixth the light level required for human vision.:\u200a43\u200a This is partly the result of cat eyes having a tapetum lucidum, which reflects any light that passes through the retina back into the eye, thereby increasing the eye's sensitivity to dim light. Large pupils are an adaptation to dim light. The domestic cat has slit pupils, which allow it to focus bright light without chromatic aberration. At low light, a cat's pupils expand to cover most of the exposed surface of its eyes. The domestic cat has rather poor color vision and only two types of cone cells, optimized for sensitivity to blue and yellowish green; its ability to distinguish between red and green is limited. A response to middle wavelengths from a system other than the rod cells might be due to a third type of cone. This appears to be an adaptation to low light levels rather than representing true trichromatic vision. Cats also have a nictitating membrane, allowing them to blink without hindering their vision.\n Question: Given this paragraph about cat's senses, what light level can domestic house cats see at in comparison to human sight?", "output": "Domestic cats are able to see at one-sixth the light level required for human vision."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Boom 1980\u20131987\nIn the 1980s a form of AI program called \"expert systems\" was adopted by corporations around the world and knowledge became the focus of mainstream AI research. In those same years, the Japanese government aggressively funded AI with its fifth generation computer project. Another encouraging event in the early 1980s was the revival of connectionism in the work of John Hopfield and David Rumelhart. Once again, AI had achieved success.\n\nThe rise of expert systems\nAn expert system is a program that answers questions or solves problems about a specific domain of knowledge, using logical rules that are derived from the knowledge of experts. The earliest examples were developed by Edward Feigenbaum and his students. Dendral, begun in 1965, identified compounds from spectrometer readings. MYCIN, developed in 1972, diagnosed infectious blood diseases. They demonstrated the feasibility of the approach.\n\nExpert systems restricted themselves to a small domain of specific knowledge (thus avoiding the commonsense knowledge problem) and their simple design made it relatively easy for programs to be built and then modified once they were in place. All in all, the programs proved to be useful: something that AI had not been able to achieve up to this point.\n\nIn 1980, an expert system called XCON was completed at CMU for the Digital Equipment Corporation. It was an enormous success: it was saving the company 40 million dollars annually by 1986. Corporations around the world began to develop and deploy expert systems and by 1985 they were spending over a billion dollars on AI, most of it to in-house AI departments. An industry grew up to support them, including hardware companies like Symbolics and Lisp Machines and software companies such as IntelliCorp and Aion.\n Question: What is an expert system, and when did they first emerge?", "output": "An expert system is a program that uses logical rules derived from expert knowledge to answer questions or solve problems in a specific domain of knowledge. The first expert system, called Dendral, was developed in 1965 by Edward Feigenbaum and his students and identified compounds from spectrometer readings."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Evdokia Reshetnik was a Ukrainian zoologist and ecologist. She was a specialist in the mole-rats and ground squirrels of Ukraine, and was the first scientist to describe the sandy blind mole-rat of southern Ukraine in 1939. She played a key role in keeping the National Museum of Natural History at the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine operable in the inter-war and immediate post-war periods, in spite of arrests by both the Gestapo and Soviet authorities. She was one of the people involved in hiding specimens of the museum to prevent them being taken by the Germans. She is known for arguing that ecology, species distribution, populations, utility, and variability, should be weighed before making determinations that labeled certain animals as pests and harmful to the environment. Though she was responsible for maintaining the historiography of scientific development in Ukraine, her own legacy was lost until the twenty-first century.\n Question: Name someone who helped to stash national treasures during a war, so irreplaceable items would not fall into the hands of the enemy or become lost", "output": "Evdokia Reshetnik, a Ukranian zoologist and ecologist, helped squirrel away natural history artifacts from a Ukranian museum of Natural History, keeping them from falling into the hands of the Germans. Ironically, the story of her courage was nearly lost, only resurfacing in the twenty-first century."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A small-world network is a mathematical graph in which most nodes are not neighbors of one another, but the neighbors of any given node are likely to be neighbors of each other. Due to this, most neighboring nodes can be reached from every other node by a small number of hops or steps. Specifically, a small-world network is defined to be a network where the typical distance L between two randomly chosen nodes (the number of steps required) grows proportionally to the logarithm of the number of nodes N in the network.\n Question: What is a small-world network?", "output": "A small-world network is a mathematical graph in which most nodes are not neighbors of one another, but the neighbors of any given node are likely to be neighbors of each other."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ian Manson Kemp (26 June 1931 \u2013 16 September 2011) was a musicologist and academic.\n\nBiography\nBorn in Edinburgh on 26 June 1931, Kemp was the son of Roland Kemp, a radio engineer. He attended King Edward VI Grammar School in Chelmsford and Felsted School, before completed National Service in Germany. In 1951, he began undergraduate studies at St John's College, Cambridge under Patrick Hadley and Robin Orr. On graduating in 1954, he began working for Schott & Co., the music publisher. In 1959, he was appointed an assistant lecturer at the University of Aberdeen; he briefly returned to Schott's (1962\u201364) as head of promotion, but then went back to Aberdeen, this time to take up a senior lectureship. He was elected a fellow of St John's College, Cambridge, in 1971, remaining there until his appointment to the West Riding Chair of Music at the University of Leeds in 1977. He moved to the University of Manchester in 1981 to be Professor of Music, and remained there until retirement in 1991.\n\nKemp's time at Schott's brought him into contact with distinguished composers, including Michael Tippett, Alexander Goehr, Peter Maxwell Davies and Harrison Birtwistle. He became an expert on Tippett's music, and at Aberdeen he edited Michael Tippett: A Symposium on his 60th Birthday in 1965. His time at Manchester, which The Guardian considers the \"culmination\" of his career, saw him write a biography of Tippett in 1984, which The Times considered \"masterly\". He was also a specialist in Paul Hindemith, surveying his work in 1970, and Hector Berlioz, editing the Cambridge Opera Handbook on Berlioz's Les Troyens in 1989.\n\nIn his retirement, he lived in North London and then Sussex, but health problems slowed down his scholarly output. He died on 16 September 2011, leaving a widow, the conductor Sian Edwards, and their son, and five children from his first marriage to Gill Turner.\n Question: How many years were Ian Kemps masterly culmination of his career at Manchester?", "output": "For 10 years, between 1981 and his retirement in 1991"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Suntory Holdings Limited (\u30b5\u30f3\u30c8\u30ea\u30fc\u30db\u30fc\u30eb\u30c7\u30a3\u30f3\u30b0\u30b9\u682a\u5f0f\u4f1a\u793e, Santor\u012b H\u014drudingusu Kabushiki-gaisha) (commonly referred to as simply Suntory) is a Japanese multinational brewing and distilling company group. Established in 1899, it is one of the oldest companies in the distribution of alcoholic beverages in Japan, and makes Japanese whisky. Its business has expanded to other fields, and the company now also makes soft drinks and operates sandwich chains. With its 2014 acquisition of Beam, Inc., it has diversified internationally and become the third largest maker of distilled beverages in the world. Suntory is headquartered in Dojimahama 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka, Osaka Prefecture. Suntory Beverage & Food Limited (\u30b5\u30f3\u30c8\u30ea\u30fc\u98df\u54c1\u30a4\u30f3\u30bf\u30fc\u30ca\u30b7\u30e7\u30ca\u30eb\u682a\u5f0f\u4f1a\u793e, Santor\u012b shokuhin\n Question: When was Suntory established?", "output": "Suntory was established in 1899"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The American Society for Clinical Investigation (ASCI), established in 1908, is one of the oldest and most respected medical honor societies in the United States.\n\nOrganization and purpose\nThe ASCI is an honorary society to which more than 2,800 physician-scientists from all medical specialties belong. Prospective members are proposed by standing members of the society and elected to ASCI on the basis of an outstanding record of scholarly achievement in biomedical research. The ASCI includes physician-scientists who are active clinically, in basic research, or in teaching. Many of its senior members are widely recognized leaders in academic medicine. As of 2015 the membership of ASCI has included 417 members of the National Academy of Medicine, 191 members of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, 40 Lasker Award winners, and 19 Nobel laureates.\n\nThe ASCI supports the research into basic mechanisms and/or treatment of human diseases, and to the education of future generations of physician-scientists. The ASCI considers the nominations of several hundred physician-scientists from the United States and abroad each year and elects up to 80 new members each year for their significant research accomplishments relatively early in their careers.\n\nThe ASCI is a member of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB), which includes numerous biomedical research societies. The ASCI publishes the peer-reviewed biomedical research journals Journal of Clinical Investigation and JCI Insight.\n\nA collection of the society's papers is held at the National Library of Medicine.\n Question: Given a reference text about the American Society for Clinical Investigation (ASCI), what research does the society support?", "output": "The ASCI supports research into basic mechanisms and treatment of human diseases and to the education of the future generations of physician-scientists."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: World religions is a category used in the study of religion to demarcate the five\u2014and in some cases more\u2014largest and most internationally widespread religious movements. Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam are always included in the list, being known as the \"Big Five\". Some scholars also include other world religions, such as Taoism, Jainism, Sikhism, Zoroastrianism, and the Bah\u00e1\u02bc\u00ed Faith, in the category. These are often juxtaposed against other categories, such as indigenous religions and new religious movements, which are also used by scholars in this field of research.\n Question: Based on this paragraph about religions of the world, what are the \"big five\" religions?", "output": "The \"Big Five\" refers to the five most prominent religious movements globally: Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: New York, often called New York City or NYC, is the most populous city in the United States. With a 2020 population of 8,804,190 distributed over 300.46 square miles (778.2 km2), New York City is the most densely populated major city in the United States and more than twice as populous as Los Angeles, the nation's second-largest city.\n Question: Which is the most populous city in the United States", "output": "New York"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The academy's intercollegiate program has 17 men's and 10 women's NCAA sanctioned teams, nicknamed the Falcons. Men's teams compete in football, baseball, basketball, ice hockey, cross-country, fencing, golf, gymnastics, indoor and outdoor track, lacrosse, soccer, swimming and diving, tennis, water polo and wrestling. In 1991 the wrestling team won the WAC championship, which was the first ever by any USAFA sports team. Women's teams include basketball, cross-country, fencing, gymnastics, indoor and outdoor track, swimming and diving, soccer, tennis and volleyball. The Academy fields a coeducational team in rifle. In addition, the Academy also sponsors two non-NCAA programs: cheerleading and boxing. The Academy also has several club sports, such as rugby, that compete at an intercollegiate level outside of the NCAA.\n\nThe men's and women's programs compete in NCAA's Division I, with the football team competing in Division I FBS. Most teams are in the Mountain West Conference; however, the wrestling team competes in the Big 12 Conference, the gymnastics teams compete in the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation; the men's soccer team competes in the Western Athletic Conference; the men's hockey team competes in Atlantic Hockey, the water polo team competes in the Western Water Polo Association, the coeducational rifle team competes in the Patriot Rifle Conference, and as of the next lacrosse season in 2022, the men's lacrosse team competes in the ASUN Conference. The men's boxing team competes in the National Collegiate Boxing Association. For a number of years, only the men's teams competed in Division I. Women's teams competed in Division II and were once members of the Continental Divide Conference, then the Colorado Athletic Conference. With new NCAA legislation, beginning in 1996, women's teams also competed in Division I.[citation needed]\n\n\nPresentation of the Commander in Chief's Trophy to the Air Force Falcons, 2 May 2017\nAir Force has traditional service academy rivalries with Navy and Army. The three service academies compete for the Commander-in-Chief's Trophy in football each year. Air Force Falcons football has had the best showing of the three, winning the trophy 18 of its 34 years. The Academy also has an in-state rivalry with Colorado State University, which is located in Fort Collins and is a fellow member of the Mountain West Conference.[citation needed]\n\nThe boxing team, led for 31 years by Coach Ed Weichers, has won 18 national championships. The Academy's men's and women's rugby teams have each won multiple national championships and the women's side recently had two players selected for the United States national team. The football team has played in 17 bowl games and the basketball team has had strong showings in the last several years, qualifying for the NCAA tournament and, most recently, making the final four of the 2007 NIT Tournament. The men's ice hockey team won the last two Atlantic Hockey conference tournaments, made the first ever appearance by a service academy in the NCAA hockey tournament in 2007, and made a repeat appearance in 2008. The Air Force Academy's Men's Hockey team recently lost in the \"Elite Eight\" of hockey in double overtime. This marked the farthest they had gone in the post-season in school history and the longest an Atlantic Hockey Association team has made it into the post-season.\n\nThe track and field team has had national and international success. Three women won Division II NCAA titles before the women's team moved to Division I competition: Gail Conway (outdoor 400 meters in 1983, outdoor 800 meters in 1984); Jill Wood (indoor 1500 meters in 1988); and Callie Calhoun (indoor and outdoor 3000 meters and outdoor 5000 meters in 1990, indoor 3000 meters and outdoor 10,000 meters in 1991). Three athletes have also won Division I NCAA outdoor titles: Jim Murphy in the 5000 meters in 1964, Dana Pounds in the javelin in 2005 and 2006, and Mahala Norris in the steeplechase in 2021. 1983 alumnus Alonzo Babers won gold medals in the 400 meters and the 4x400 meter relay at the 1984 Los Angeles Olympic Games.\n\nIn 2014, Academy Superintendent Lt. Gen. Michelle Johnson responded to reports of allegations of sexual assault and drug use at a December 2011 party by calling for a review of the athletic department by the inspector general.\n Question: Who are the rivals of the Air Force Falcons Football team?", "output": "The Air Force Academy Football team has a rivalry with Colorado State University as well as with Army and Navy."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Breezy Point is a city in Crow Wing County, Minnesota, United States. It is part of the Brainerd Micropolitan Statistical Area. The population was 2,346 at the 2010 census.\n Question: What is the population of Breezy Point city in Minnesota?", "output": "Breezy Point's population was 2,346 at the 2010 census."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: David Allan Farrish (born August 1, 1956) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey defenceman who played 430 games in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the New York Rangers, Quebec Nordiques, and Toronto Maple Leafs between 1976 and 1984. He featured in the 1979 Stanley Cup Finals with the Rangers.\n\nHe also played in the American Hockey League and won the Eddie Shore Award as the league's best defenceman during the 1981\u201382 season. After his playing career Farrish worked as a coach.\n Question: Given a reference text about David Allan Farrish, tell me how many games he played in the NHL.", "output": "David Allan Farrish played 430 games in the NHL."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Three-Body Problem (Chinese: \u4e09\u4f53; lit. 'Three-Body') is a science fiction novel written by the Chinese writer Liu Cixin. The title refers to the three-body problem in orbital mechanics. It is the first novel of the Remembrance of Earth's Past (Chinese: \u5730\u7403\u5f80\u4e8b) trilogy, but the whole series is often referred to as Three-Body. The trilogy's second and third novels are The Dark Forest and Death's End, respectively.\nThe first volume of The Three-Body Problem was originally serialized in Science Fiction World in 2006 and published as a standalone book in 2008, becoming one of the most successful Chinese science fiction novels of the last two decades. The novel received the Chinese Science Fiction Yinhe (\"Galaxy\") Award in 2006 along with many more over the years. By 2015, a Chinese film adaptation of the same name was in production.\n\nThe English translation by Ken Liu was published by Tor Books in 2014. Thereafter, it became the first Asian novel ever to win a Hugo Award for Best Novel, and was nominated for the Nebula Award for Best Novel.\n\nThe series portrays a fictional past, present and future where, in the first book, Earth encounters an alien civilization in a nearby star system that consists of three solar-type stars orbiting each other in an unstable three-body system.\n Question: tell me about the three body problem novel", "output": "Three body problem is a breaking through science friction book written by Cixin Liu\uff0ca chinese novelist. The book has a macro imagination and profound perspective about human beings, society , nature and the entire universe. It is considered the number one science fiction book in China."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Advocates of autonomous building describe advantages that include reduced environmental impacts, increased security, and lower costs of ownership. Some cited advantages satisfy tenets of green building, not independence per se (see below). Off-grid buildings often rely very little on civil services and are therefore safer and more comfortable during civil disaster or military attacks. For example, Off-grid buildings would not lose power or water if public supplies were compromised.\n Question: Given this paragraph about autonomous buildings, why would they be safer during a military attack?", "output": "Autonomous buildings often rely on less civil services and are therefore safer and more comfortable during civil disasters or military attacks."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"More\" is a song written and performed by American contemporary Christian musician Matthew West, from his first album, Happy. The album was released in late 2003, and it was the first and most successful radio single of West's career up to that time. The song stayed at No. 1 on Christian radio for nine consecutive weeks during 2004, breaking the previous record of eight weeks. In 2004, it was the most-played contemporary Christian song of the year.\n\nBy request of astronaut Rex J. Walheim, \"More\" was played during the Day 5 wake-up call aboard STS-135, NASA's last Space Shuttle fligh\n Question: Given a reference text about \"More\", when was it the top song on Christian radio and how long did it maintain its spot?", "output": "The song \"More\" was the top song on Christian radio for nine weeks in 2004."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Russia's invasion of Ukraine prompted Finland and Sweden to apply for NATO membership in May 2022, and the ratification process for Sweden is in progress. Finland officially joined on 4 April 2023. Ukraine applied for NATO membership in September 2022 after Russia claimed to annex part of its territory. Two other states have formally informed NATO of their membership aspirations: Bosnia and Herzegovina and Georgia. Kosovo also aspires to join NATO. Joining the alliance is a debate topic in several other European countries outside the alliance, including Austria, Ireland, Malta, Moldova, and Serbia.\n Question: When did Finland and Sweden join NATO?", "output": "Finland officially joined NATO on 4 April 2023, while the ratification process for Sweden is in progress."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Maurice \"Rocket\" Richard Trophy, also known as the Rocket Richard Trophy, is awarded annually to the leading goal scorer in the National Hockey League (NHL). It was donated to the NHL by the Montreal Canadiens in 1998\u201399 and is named in honour of legendary Montreal Canadiens right winger Maurice \"Rocket\" Richard. First won by Teemu Selanne, it is currently held by Auston Matthews, who scored 60 goals during the 2021\u201322 NHL season.\n Question: What is the Maurice Richard Trophy", "output": "The Maurice \"Rocket\" Richard Trophy, also known as the Rocket Richard Trophy, is awarded annually to the leading goal scorer in the National Hockey League (NHL). It was donated to the NHL by the Montreal Canadiens in 1998\u201399 and is named in honour of legendary Montreal Canadiens right winger Maurice \"Rocket\" Richard. \n\nFirst won by Teemu Selanne, it is currently held by Auston Matthews, who scored 60 goals during the 2021\u201322 NHL season."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mariano S\u00e1nchez Mart\u00ednez (born 28 January 1978) is a Spanish former professional footballer who played as a defensive midfielder.\n\nHe appeared in 108 Segunda Divisi\u00f3n games over three seasons, scoring two goals for Cartagena.\n\nClub career\nBorn in San Pedro del Pinatar, Region of Murcia, S\u00e1nchez did not reach the Segunda Divisi\u00f3n B until he was 26, in 2004, arriving at CD Alcoyano from amateurs AD Mar Menor-San Javier. In the following year he moved to another club at that level, FC Cartagena, helping it promote to Segunda Divisi\u00f3n in his fourth season.\n\nS\u00e1nchez made his debut in the competition on 29 August 2009 at the age of 31 years and seven months, playing the full 90 minutes in a 1\u20130 away win against Girona FC. He scored his first league goal on 22 May 2010 in the 3\u20135 home loss to Levante UD, and never appeared in less than 34 league matches during his three seasons in that tier, suffering relegation in his last and renewing his contract for a further two years in June 2012.\n\nOn 14 May 2014, the 36-year-old S\u00e1nchez announced he would retire at the end of the campaign while hoping to help his team promote, which eventually did not befell.\n\nPersonal life\nS\u00e1nchez rejected an offer to play youth football for Real Murcia when he was 18, after deciding to move to Madrid to study architecture. Not being able to enter Real Madrid's youth system, he chose to retire from football.\n\nAfter his playing days, S\u00e1nchez continued to work as an architect. Still as an active player, he was the figurehead behind the creation of the sports complex Pinatar Arena, in his hometown.\n Question: Is he still an active football player?", "output": "No, he retired at the age of 36 on May 14, 2014. However he is still working as an architect which he studied during his graduation."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Stone Age was a broad prehistoric period during which stone was widely used to make stone tools with an edge, a point, or a percussion surface. The period lasted for roughly 3.4 million years, and ended between 4,000 BC and 2,000 BC, with the advent of metalworking. Though some simple metalworking of malleable metals, particularly the use of gold and copper for purposes of ornamentation, was known in the Stone Age, it is the melting and smelting of copper that marks the end of the Stone Age. In Western Asia, this occurred by about 3,000 BC, when bronze became widespread. The term Bronze Age is used to describe the period that followed the Stone Age, as well as to describe cultures that had developed techniques and technologies for working copper alloys (bronze: originally copper and arsenic, later copper and tin) into tools, supplanting stone in many uses.\n\nStone Age artifacts that have been discovered include tools used by modern humans, by their predecessor species in the genus Homo, and possibly by the earlier partly contemporaneous genera Australopithecus and Paranthropus. Bone tools have been discovered that were used during this period as well but these are rarely preserved in the archaeological record. The Stone Age is further subdivided by the types of stone tools in use.\n Question: What is the stone age?", "output": "The Stone age was a prehistoric period that lasted for millions of years and ended in and ended between 4,000 BC and 2,000 BC , with the advent of metalworking.  In this period, stone was widely used to make stone tools and weapons with an edge, a point, or a percussion surface. \nThe Stone Age is the first period in the three-age system frequently used in archaeology to divide the timeline of human technological prehistory into functional periods, with the next two being the Bronze Age and the Iron Age, respectively. \nThough some simple metalworking of malleable metals, particularly the use of gold and copper for purposes of ornamentation, was known in the Stone Age, it is the melting and smelting of copper that marks the end of the Stone Age.\nThe Stone Age is also commonly divided into three distinct periods: Paleolithic era which is the earliest and most primitive; a transitional period with finer tools known as the Mesolithic era; and the final stage known as the Neolithic era. Neolithic peoples were the first to transition away from hunter-gatherer societies into the settled lifestyle of inhabiting towns and villages as agriculture became widespread."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The song was written by Sumney with American singer-songwriter Tom Gallo. Sumney also solely produced the track.\n Question: Who produced the song Polly?", "output": "The song was written and produced by American singer-songwriter Moses Sumney."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Maison Ikkoku is a manga series written and illustrated by Rumiko Takahashi. It was serialized in Shogakukan's Big Comic Spirits from November 15, 1980 to April 20, 1987. It has been adapted into an anime series and a live action film and two episode TV drama. The plot follows Yusaku Godai, a r\u014dnin who resides in an old apartment complex named Maison Ikkoku as he studies for the university entrance exam. Yusaku's life progression and interactions progress episodically and focuses on his growing relationship with the apartment manager, Kyoko Otonashi.\n Question: Is Maison Ikkoku a manga series", "output": "Maison Ikkoku is a manga series written and illustrated by Rumiko Takahashi. It was serialized in Shogakukan's Big Comic Spirits from November 15, 1980 to April 20, 1987. It has been adapted into an anime series and a live action film and two episode TV drama."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Belgrandia varica was previously considered to be extinct, however it has been classified as Critically Endangered (Possibly Extinct) by IUCN because it might still be present in a small spring that has been overlooked during previous surveys.\n\nThis species is endemic to France.\n Question: Is Belgrandia varica found in Europe or Australia?", "output": "Belgrandia varica is endemic to France, so therefore it is found in Europe."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Extended ASCII is a repertoire of character encodings that include (most of) the original 96 ASCII character set, plus up to 128 additional characters. There is no formal definition of \"extended ASCII\", and even use of the term is sometimes criticized, because it can be mistakenly interpreted to mean that the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) had updated its ANSI X3.4-1986 standard to include more characters, or that the term identifies a single unambiguous encoding, neither of which is the case.\n\nThe ISO standard ISO 8859 was the first international standard to formalize a (limited) expansion of the ASCII character set: of the many language variants it encoded, ISO 8859-1 (\"ISO Latin 1\") \u2013 which supports most Western European languages \u2013 is best known in the West. There are many other extended ASCII encodings (more than 220 DOS and Windows codepages). EBCDIC (\"the other\" major character code) likewise developed many extended variants (more than 186 EBCDIC codepages) over the decades.\n\nThe technology has largely been rendered technically obsolete by Unicode, which has code points for all the characters encoded in the various attempts to extend ASCII. All modern operating systems use this technology. Nevertheless, the topic remains important in the history of computing.\n Question: Based on the provided text, what technology rendered Extended ASCII obsolete?", "output": "Unicode rendered extended ASCII obsolete."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: There are nine castles in Greater Manchester, a metropolitan county in North West England. They consist of four motte-and-bailey castles, three fortified manor houses, an enclosure castle, and a possible shell keep. A motte-and-bailey castle is characterised by two elements: the motte is an artificial mound with a wooden stockade and stronghold on top, usually a stone keep or tower, while the bailey is a defended enclosure adjacent to the motte, typically enclosed by a ditch and a bank topped by a timber palisade or stone wall. Motte-and-bailey castles were the most common type of castle in England following the Norman Conquest. A shell keep was a motte with a stone wall rather than a wooden stockade on top; there would have been no tower within the walls. Four of Greater Manchester's castles are scheduled monuments: Buckton, Bury, Radcliffe Tower, and Watch Hill. A scheduled monument is a \"nationally important\" archaeological site or historic building, given protection against unauthorised change.\n Question: According to this paragraph, what was the most common type of castle in England following the Norman Conquest?", "output": "According to this text, the Motte-and-bailey castles were the most common following the Norman Conquest."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: International Military Education and Training (IMET) is the title of a United States security assistance program, a type of student exchange program.\n Question: What does the acronym IMET stand for?", "output": "International Military Education and Training"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Beneficence is a concept in research ethics that states that researchers should have the welfare of the research participant as a goal of any clinical trial or other research study. The antonym of this term, maleficence, describes a practice that opposes the welfare of any research participant. According to the Belmont Report, researchers are required to follow two moral requirements in line with the principle of beneficence: do not harm and maximize possible benefits for research while minimizing any potential harm on others.\n\nThe concept that medical professionals and researchers would always practice beneficence seems natural to most patients and research participants, but in fact, every health intervention or research intervention has potential to harm the recipient. There are many different precedents in medicine and research for conducting a cost\u2013benefit analysis and judging whether a certain action would be a sufficient practice of beneficence, and the extent to which treatments are acceptable or unacceptable is under debate.\n\nDespite differences in opinion, there are many concepts on which there is wide agreement. One is that there should be community consensus when determining best practices for dealing with ethical problems.\n Question: Given this reference text about beneficence, what can I do to ensure compliance to the beneficence concept?", "output": "Ensure you are not harming your research participants, while maximizing benefits and minimizing any potential harm.  Engage with your community to determine best practices when encountering ethical concerns.  This should ensure your compliance with beneficence."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hong Kong, officially the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China (abbr. Hong Kong SAR or HKSAR), is a city and special administrative region of China on the eastern Pearl River Delta in South China. With 7.5 million residents of various nationalities in a 1,104-square-kilometre (426 sq mi) territory, Hong Kong is one of the most densely populated places in the world. Hong Kong is also a major global financial centre and one of the most developed cities in the world.\n\nHong Kong was established as a colony of the British Empire after the Qing Empire ceded Hong Kong Island from Xin'an County at the end of the First Opium War in 1841 then again in 1842. The colony expanded to the Kowloon Peninsula in 1860 after the Second Opium War and was further extended when Britain obtained a 99-year lease of the New Territories in 1898. British Hong Kong was occupied by Imperial Japan from 1941 to 1945 during World War II; British administration resumed after the surrender of Japan. The whole territory was transferred to China in 1997. As one of China's two special administrative regions (the other being Macau), Hong Kong maintains separate governing and economic systems from that of mainland China under the principle of \"one country, two systems\".\n\nOriginally a sparsely populated area of farming and fishing villages, the territory has become one of the world's most significant financial centres and commercial ports. As of 2021, it is the world's ninth-largest exporter and eight-largest importer. Hong Kong has a market economy characterised by a focus on services, low taxation and free trade; its currency, the Hong Kong dollar, is the eighth most traded currency in the world. Hong Kong is home to the third-highest number of billionaires of any city in the world, the second-highest number of billionaires of any city in Asia, and the largest concentration of ultra high-net-worth individuals of any city in the world. Although the city has one of the highest per capita incomes in the world, severe income inequality exists among the population. Most notably, housing in Hong Kong has been well-documented to experience a chronic persistent shortage; the extremely compact house sizes and the extremely high housing density are the effects of Hong Kong's housing market being the most expensive housing in the world.\n\nHong Kong is a highly developed territory and has a Human Development Index (HDI) of 0.952, ranking fourth in the world. The city has the largest number of skyscrapers of any city in the world, and its residents have some of the highest life expectancies in the world. The dense space has led to a highly developed transportation network with public transport rates exceeding 90%. Hong Kong is ranked 3rd in the Global Financial Centres Index.\n Question: Tell me about Hong Kong", "output": "Hong Kong, officially the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China (abbr. Hong Kong SAR or HKSAR), is a city and special administrative region of China on the eastern Pearl River Delta in South China. With 7.5 million residents of various nationalities in a 1,104-square-kilometre (426 sq mi) territory, Hong Kong is one of the most densely populated places in the world. Hong Kong is also a major global financial centre and one of the most developed cities in the world.\n\nHong Kong was established as a colony of the British Empire after the Qing Empire ceded Hong Kong Island from Xin'an County at the end of the First Opium War in 1841 then again in 1842. The colony expanded to the Kowloon Peninsula in 1860 after the Second Opium War and was further extended when Britain obtained a 99-year lease of the New Territories in 1898. British Hong Kong was occupied by Imperial Japan from 1941 to 1945 during World War II; British administration resumed after the surrender of Japan. The whole territory was transferred to China in 1997. As one of China's two special administrative regions (the other being Macau), Hong Kong maintains separate governing and economic systems from that of mainland China under the principle of \"one country, two systems\".\n\nOriginally a sparsely populated area of farming and fishing villages, the territory has become one of the world's most significant financial centres and commercial ports. As of 2021, it is the world's ninth-largest exporter and eight-largest importer. Hong Kong has a market economy characterised by a focus on services, low taxation and free trade; its currency, the Hong Kong dollar, is the eighth most traded currency in the world. Hong Kong is home to the third-highest number of billionaires of any city in the world, the second-highest number of billionaires of any city in Asia, and the largest concentration of ultra high-net-worth individuals of any city in the world. Although the city has one of the highest per capita incomes in the world, severe income inequality exists among the population. Most notably, housing in Hong Kong has been well-documented to experience a chronic persistent shortage; the extremely compact house sizes and the extremely high housing density are the effects of Hong Kong's housing market being the most expensive housing in the world.\n\nHong Kong is a highly developed territory and has a Human Development Index (HDI) of 0.952, ranking fourth in the world. The city has the largest number of skyscrapers of any city in the world, and its residents have some of the highest life expectancies in the world. The dense space has led to a highly developed transportation network with public transport rates exceeding 90%. Hong Kong is ranked 3rd in the Global Financial Centres Index."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Puerto Rico (Spanish for 'rich port'; abbreviated PR; Taino: Boriken, Borinquen), officially the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (Spanish: Estado Libre Asociado de Puerto Rico, lit.\u2009'Free Associated State of Puerto Rico'), is a Caribbean island and unincorporated territory of the United States with official Commonwealth status. It is located in the northeast Caribbean Sea, approximately 1,000 miles (1,600 km) southeast of Miami, Florida, between the Dominican Republic and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and includes the eponymous main island and several smaller islands, such as Mona, Culebra, and Vieques. It has roughly 3.2 million residents, and its capital and most populous city is San Juan. Spanish and English are the official languages of the executive branch of government, though Spanish predominates.\n\nPuerto Rico was settled by a succession of indigenous peoples beginning 2,000 to 4,000 years ago; these included the Ortoiroid, Saladoid, and Ta\u00edno. It was then colonized by Spain following the arrival of Christopher Columbus in 1493. Puerto Rico was contested by other European powers, but remained a Spanish possession for the next four centuries. An influx of African slaves and settlers primarily from the Canary Islands and Andalusia vastly changed the cultural and demographic landscape of the island. Within the Spanish Empire, Puerto Rico played a secondary but strategic role compared to wealthier colonies like Peru and New Spain. By the late 19th century, a distinct Puerto Rican identity began to emerge, centered around a fusion of indigenous, African, and European elements. In 1898, following the Spanish\u2013American War, Puerto Rico was acquired by the United States.\n\nPuerto Ricans have been U.S. citizens since 1917, and can move freely between the island and the mainland. However, as residents of an unincorporated territory, American citizens of Puerto Rico are disenfranchised at the national level, do not vote for the president or vice president, and generally do not pay federal income tax.[Note 1] In common with four other territories, Puerto Rico sends a nonvoting representative to the U.S. Congress, called a Resident Commissioner, and participates in presidential primaries; as it is not a state, Puerto Rico does not have a vote in Congress, which governs it under the Puerto Rico Federal Relations Act of 1950. Congress approved a local constitution in 1952, allowing U.S. citizens residing on the island to elect a governor. Puerto Rico's current and future political status has consistently been a matter of significant debate.\n Question: Given a reference text about Puerto Rico, tell me if it is a State, are its resident US citizens, and if they pay US taxes.", "output": "No, Puerto Rico is not a US state. Rather, it is a US territory. Puerto Rican citizens have automatic US citizenship. Due to this, residents of Puerto Rico and the United States can travel freely between the two, without passports. Puerto Rican residents do not pay federal income tax nor do they vote for the US president."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jonathan Young (born September 29, 1944) is a psychologist who became the founding curator of the Joseph Campbell Archives.\n\nBackground\nYoung developed an interest in the teaching functions of stories through early exposure to folklore. He was one of six children in a much-traveled family. His parents read and discussed the lore of each place they visited, such as the Little Mermaid in Copenhagen, the Pied Piper in Hamelin, the Arabian Nights in Baghdad, and the Buddha in India and Japan.\n\nHis graduate studies focused on the psychology of stories, and included work with Viktor Frankl, Rollo May, Abraham Maslow, and Carl Rogers. He earned his PhD in Clinical Psychology from Alliant International University.\n\nCareer\n\nJoseph Campbell with Jonathan Young, 1985.\nYoung is best known for his series of books, Saga: Best New Writings on Mythology. He assisted mythologist Joseph Campbell for several years at seminars. In addition to the Campbell archives, he organized the collections of psychologist James Hillman, and archeologist Marija Gimbutas. As a professor, Young created and chaired the Mythological Studies Department at the Pacifica Graduate Institute, working with Jungian theorists such as Robert Bly, Marion Woodman, Robert A. Johnson, Jean Houston, and Thomas Moore.\n\nIn 1995, Dr. Young launched the Center for Story and Symbol in Santa Barbara, California to continue the work of Joseph Campbell. Through the center's programs, he presents seminars internationally on the uses of mythic stories for therapists, writers, clergy, and teachers. He also teaches the hero's journey in screenwriting programs. He lectures occasionally at universities, such as UCLA, Notre Dame, and Oxford, as well as ongoing courses in Mythopoetics at Pacifica Graduate Institute. He is featured in the History Channel documentary Star Wars: The Legacy Revealed. He also frequently appears on the History Channel and H2 television series Ancient Aliens.\n\nWorks\nSaga: Best New Writings on Mythology\nArticle on Joseph Campbell, The Dictionary of Modern American Philosophers\n Question: Who is the psychologist Jonathan Young", "output": "Jonathan Young (born September 29, 1944) is a psychologist who became the founding curator of the Joseph Campbell Archives.\n\nBackground\nYoung developed an interest in the teaching functions of stories through early exposure to folklore. He was one of six children in a much-traveled family. His parents read and discussed the lore of each place they visited, such as the Little Mermaid in Copenhagen, the Pied Piper in Hamelin, the Arabian Nights in Baghdad, and the Buddha in India and Japan.\n\nHis graduate studies focused on the psychology of stories, and included work with Viktor Frankl, Rollo May, Abraham Maslow, and Carl Rogers. He earned his PhD in Clinical Psychology from Alliant International University.\n\nCareer\nYoung is best known for his series of books, Saga: Best New Writings on Mythology. He assisted mythologist Joseph Campbell for several years at seminars. In addition to the Campbell archives, he organized the collections of psychologist James Hillman, and archeologist Marija Gimbutas. As a professor, Young created and chaired the Mythological Studies Department at the Pacifica Graduate Institute, working with Jungian theorists such as Robert Bly, Marion Woodman, Robert A. Johnson, Jean Houston, and Thomas Moore.\n\nIn 1995, Dr. Young launched the Center for Story and Symbol in Santa Barbara, California to continue the work of Joseph Campbell. Through the center's programs, he presents seminars internationally on the uses of mythic stories for therapists, writers, clergy, and teachers. He also teaches the hero's journey in screenwriting programs. He lectures occasionally at universities, such as UCLA, Notre Dame, and Oxford, as well as ongoing courses in Mythopoetics at Pacifica Graduate Institute. He is featured in the History Channel documentary Star Wars: The Legacy Revealed. He also frequently appears on the History Channel and H2 television series Ancient Aliens.\n\nWorks\nSaga: Best New Writings on Mythology\nArticle on Joseph Campbell, The Dictionary of Modern American Philosophers"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Reliable counts of speakers of Louisiana French are difficult to obtain as distinct from other varieties of French. However, the vast majority of native residents of Louisiana and east and southeast Texas who speak French are likely speakers of Louisiana French.\n\nIn Louisiana, as of 2010, the population of French speakers was approximately 115,183. These populations were concentrated most heavily in the southern, coastal parishes.\n\nIn Texas, as of 2010, the French-speaking population was 55,773, though many of these were likely immigrants from France and other locations, living in the urban areas. Nevertheless, in the rural eastern/southeastern Texas counties of Orange, Jefferson, Chambers, Newton, Jasper, Tyler, Liberty, and Hardin alone\u2014areas where it can be reasonably presumed that almost all French speakers are Louisiana French speakers\u2014the total French-speaking population was composed of 3,400 individuals. It is likely a substantial portion of the 14,493 speakers in Houston's Harris county are also Louisiana French speakers. With this in mind, a marked decline in the number of French speakers in Texas has been noticed in the last half of the twentieth century. For example, at one point[when?] the French-speaking population of Jefferson County was 24,049 as compared to the mere 1,922 today. Likewise, in Harris County the French-speaking population has shifted from 26,796 to 14,493 individuals.\n\nLouisiana French-speaking populations can also be found in southern Mississippi and Alabama, as well as pockets in other parts of the United States.\n Question: Given this text about speakers of varieties of Louisiana French, has the number of French speakers in Texas increased or decreased since the middle of the twentieth century?", "output": "It has generally decreased.  For example, in the second half of the twentieth century, the French-speaking population of Jefferson County was 24,049 as compared to 1,922 today. Similarly, in Harris County the French-speaking population has shifted from 26,796 to 14,493."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The TV series was starred and created by Justin Fletcher, who plays the characters in all of the comedy sketches and also wrote a few sketches in its first series. Some of the sketches are filmed in the studio, while other sketches are filmed outside; for example, one is filmed at Portmeirion, used for the fictional town of Wiggyville where Captain Adorable's sketches are set from Series 1 to 2. The show is interspersed with a selection of children called the Gigglekids, who tell jokes to Justin himself, in their own section called 'Giggle Box'.\n Question: What happens during the section called \"Giggle Box\"?", "output": "Children called the Gigglekids tell jokes to Justin."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In computer engineering, a reduced instruction set computer (RISC) is a computer architecture designed to simplify the individual instructions given to the computer to accomplish tasks. Compared to the instructions given to a complex instruction set computer (CISC), a RISC computer might require more instructions (more code) in order to accomplish a task because the individual instructions are written in simpler code. The goal is to offset the need to process more instructions by increasing the speed of each instruction, in particular by implementing an instruction pipeline, which may be simpler given simpler instructions.\n Question: Given this paragraph about computer engineering, what is RISC?", "output": "RISC stands for reduced instruction set computer. It is a computer architecture designed to simplify the individual instructions given to the computer to accomplish tasks."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: 101 Damnations is the debut studio album by English rock band Carter the Unstoppable Sex Machine, released on 15 January 1990 through Big Cat Records. After playing in different bands, James Robert \"Jim Bob\" Morrison and Les \"Fruitbat\" Carter formed Bob and played their first show in August 1987, before changing the name to Carter the Unstoppable Sex Machine. Over the next year, they played various shows across London before signing to Big Cat; with shows further north of the city in early 1989, a fanbase started building. The duo recorded their debut album with producer Simon Painter at Important Notice Studios, which was a garage on Painter's property, in Mitcham, South London. 101 Damnations is a punk rock and glam rock album that merged the styles of David Bowie and Pet Shop Boys, alongside loud guitars, drum machines and samples taken from films and TV shows.\n Question: What record label did 101 Damnations go through?", "output": "101 Damnations was released on January 15, 1990 through Big Cat Records."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Johan I of East Frisia (1506\u20131572) was a member of the house of Cirksena and a non-reigning Count of East Frisia and later imperial governor of Limburg. His father, Edzard the Great, had introduced primogeniture in the county of East Frisia, so that his older brother Enno II of East Frisia inherited the county alone and he had to hold back. Despite his ambitions, he always acknowledged his brother's rights and did not dispute the inheritance.\n Question: Who introduced primogeniture into East Frisia?", "output": "Edzard the Great"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lasantha Rodrigo (born 28 May 1938) is a former cricketer who played 14 matches of first-class cricket for Ceylon between 1959 and 1971.\n\nLife and career\nLasantha Rodrigo was born in Moratuwa and attended Prince of Wales' College, Moratuwa, where he captained the cricket team in 1958 and 1959, and also captained the Ceylon schools team. His father, J. B. C. Rodrigo, was principal of Prince of Wales' College from 1933 to 1959.\n\nHe made his highest first-class score on his debut, in the Gopalan Trophy match in 1958\u201359, when he scored 89. Batting at number three, he top-scored with 44 for Ceylon in their one-day match against the touring Australians in April 1961. He toured India with the Ceylon team in 1964-65, playing in all three matches against India, but with only moderate success.\n\nHe worked for Ceylon Cold Stores for 31 years as a mechanical engineer. Inability to take time off work to play cricket shortened his cricket career. In 2014 he was formally honoured by Sri Lanka Cricket for his services to cricket in Sri Lanka, and awarded 300,000 rupees. In September 2018, he was one of 49 former Sri Lankan cricketers felicitated by Sri Lanka Cricket, to honour them for their services before Sri Lanka became a full member of the International Cricket Council (ICC).\n\nRodrigo lives with his wife Sweenie in Moratuwa, opposite Prince of Wales' College. They have a daughter and a son.\n Question: Given a reference text about Lasantha Rodrigo, tell me how long he worked as a mechanical engineer and who worked for.", "output": "Lasantha Rodrigo worked as a mechanical engineer for Ceylon Cold Stores for 31 years."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lester D. Menke (December 16, 1918 \u2013 March 5, 2016) was a state Representative from the Iowa's 5th and 7th Districts. He served in the Iowa House of Representatives from 1973 to 1985, serving as Speaker pro Tempore from 1981 to 1985. After he served in the Iowa House, Menke served as a liaison between Governor Terry Branstad and the legislature for two years. Menke has a B.A. from Morningside College, where he later served as a member of the board of directors, and attended The University of Iowa College of Law for one year. He worked as a farm owner and for an insurance agency. He served on various school boards and served as president of the Iowa Association of School Boards and State Board of Public Instruction and as director of the National Association of State Boards of Education, as well as serving on the Iowa Educational Radio and Television Facilities Board. Menke received Morningside College's Distinguished Alumni award in 1975.\n Question: Who was Lester Menke", "output": "Lester D. Menke (December 16, 1918 \u2013 March 5, 2016) was a state Representative from the Iowa's 5th and 7th Districts. He served in the Iowa House of Representatives from 1973 to 1985, serving as Speaker pro Tempore from 1981 to 1985. \n\nAfter he served in the Iowa House, Menke served as a liaison between Governor Terry Branstad and the legislature for two years. Menke has a B.A. from Morningside College, where he later served as a member of the board of directors, and attended The University of Iowa College of Law for one year. He worked as a farm owner and for an insurance agency.\n\nHe served on various school boards and served as president of the Iowa Association of School Boards and State Board of Public Instruction and as director of the National Association of State Boards of Education, as well as serving on the Iowa Educational Radio and Television Facilities Board. Menke received Morningside College's Distinguished Alumni award in 1975."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bitcoin (abbreviation: BTC or XBT; sign: \u20bf) is a protocol which implements a highly available, public, permanent, and decentralized ledger. In order to add to the ledger, a user must prove they control an entry in the ledger. The protocol specifies that the entry indicates an amount of a token, bitcoin with a minuscule b. The user can update the ledger, assigning some of their bitcoin to another entry in the ledger. Because the token has characteristics of money, it can be thought of as a digital currency.  Bitcoin transactions are verified by network nodes through cryptography and recorded in a public distributed ledger called a blockchain. The cryptocurrency was invented in 2008 by an unknown person or group of people using the name Satoshi Nakamoto. The currency began use in 2009, when its implementation was released as open-source software.:\u200ach. 1\u200a The word \"bitcoin\" was defined in a white paper published on October 31, 2008. It is a compound of the words bit and coin.\n Question: When was the Bitcoin white paper released?", "output": "The word \"bitcoin\" was defined in a white paper published on October 31, 2008."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The word \"autophagy\" was in existence and frequently used from the middle of the 19th century. In its present usage, the term autophagy was coined by Belgian biochemist Christian de Duve in 1963 based on his discovery of the functions of lysosome. The identification of autophagy-related genes in yeast in the 1990s allowed researchers to deduce the mechanisms of autophagy, which eventually led to the award of the 2016 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine to Japanese researcher Yoshinori Ohsumi.\n Question: Who won the 2016 Nobel Prize?", "output": "The Japanese researcher Yoshinori Ohsumi."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Final Assembly Schedule, often abbreviated as FAS and sometimes referred to as finishing schedule, is a schedule of end items to finish the product for specific customer orders in a make to order (MTO) or assemble-to-order (ATO) environment.\n Question: What does FAS, MTO and ATO stand for?", "output": "FAS = Final Assembly Schedule\nMTO = make to order\nATO = assemble-to-order"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The winners were announced during the awards ceremony on February 26, 2017. Moonlight became the first film with an all-black cast and the first LGBT-themed film to win Best Picture. In an event unprecedented in the history of the Oscars, La La Land was incorrectly announced as the Best Picture, and, a few minutes later, the error was corrected and Moonlight was declared the winner. O.J.: Made in America, at 467 minutes, became the longest film to win an Academy Award, surpassing the 431-minute long War and Peace, which won the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 1969. Following the five-part documentary's win, new academy rules barred any \"multi-part or limited series\" from being eligible for documentary categories. With Casey Affleck winning the Oscar for Best Actor, he and his older brother, Ben Affleck, became the 16th pair of siblings to win Academy Awards. Mahershala Ali became the first Muslim actor to win an Oscar. Viola Davis became the first black person to achieve the Triple Crown of Acting with her Oscar, Emmy, and Tony wins.\n Question: Which movie was originally declared the winner for Best Picture?", "output": "La La Land was originally declared the winner for Best Picture"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Anostraca is one of the four orders of crustaceans in the class Branchiopoda; its members are referred to as fairy shrimp. They live in vernal pools and hypersaline lakes across the world, and they have even been found in deserts, ice-covered mountain lakes and Antarctic ice. They are usually 6\u201325 mm (0.24\u20130.98 in) long (exceptionally up to 170 mm or 6.7 in). Most species have 20 body segments, bearing 11 pairs of leaf-like phyllopodia (swimming legs), and the body lacks a carapace. They swim \"upside-down\" and feed by filtering organic particles from the water or by scraping algae from surfaces, with the exception of Branchinecta gigas, or \"giant fairy shrimp\", which is itself a predator of other species of anostracans. They are an important food for many birds and fish, and some are cultured and harvested for use as fish food. There are 300 species spread across 8 families.\n Question: Where can you find Anostraca?", "output": "The crustaceans Anostraca can be be found in vernal pools and hypersaline lakes, as well as deserts, ice-covered mountain lakes and Antarctic ice."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A mobile device (or handheld computer) is a computer, small enough to hold and operate in the hand. Mobile devices typically have a flat LCD or OLED screen, a touchscreen interface, and digital or physical buttons. They may also have a physical keyboard. Many such devices can connect to the Internet and connect with other devices such as car entertainment systems or headsets via Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, cellular networks or near field communication. Integrated cameras, the ability to place and receive voice and video telephone calls, video games, and Global Positioning System (GPS) capabilities are common. Power is typically provided by a lithium-ion battery. Mobile devices may run mobile operating systems that allow third-party applications to be installed and run.\n Question: What type of screen is typically on a Handheld device?", "output": "A handheld device typically has a flat LCD or OLED screen,"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: China has become the largest producer of raw cashmere, estimated at 19,200 metric tons (in hair) per year (2016). Mongolia follows with 8,900 tons (in hair) as of 2016, while Afghanistan, Iran, Turkey, Kyrgyzstan and other Central Asian republics produce lesser amounts. The annual world raw production is estimated to be between 15,000 and 20,000 tons (13,605 and 18,140 tonnes) (in hair). Pure cashmere, resulting from removing animal grease, dirt and coarse hairs from the fleece, is estimated at 6,500 tons (5,895 tonnes). Ultra-fine Cashmere or Pashmina is still produced by communities in Kashmir but its rarity and high price, along with political instability in the region, make it very hard to source and to regulate quality. It is estimated that the average yearly production per goat is 150 grams (0.33 lb).\n\nPure cashmere can be dyed and spun into yarns and knitted into jumpers (sweaters), hats, gloves, socks and other clothing, or woven into fabrics then cut and assembled into garments such as outer coats, jackets, trousers (pants), pajamas, scarves, blankets, and other items. Fabric and garment producers in Scotland, Italy, and Japan have long been known as market leaders. Cashmere may also be blended with other fibers to bring the garment cost down, or to gain their properties, such as elasticity from wool, or sheen from silk.\n\nThe town of Uxbridge, Massachusetts, in the United States was an incubator for the cashmere wool industry. It had the first power looms for woolens and the first manufacture of \"satinets\". Capron Mill had the first power looms, in 1820. It burned on July 21, 2007, in the Bernat Mill fire.\n\nIn the United States, under the U.S. Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939, as amended, (15 U. S. Code Section 68b(a)(6)), a wool or textile product may be labelled as containing cashmere only if the following criteria are met:\n\nsuch wool product is the fine (dehaired) undercoat fibers produced by a cashmere goat (Capra hircus laniger);\nthe average diameter of the fiber of such wool product does not exceed 19 microns; and\nsuch wool product does not contain more than 3 percent (by weight) of cashmere fibers with average diameters that exceed 30 microns.\nthe average fiber diameter may be subject to a coefficient of variation around the mean that shall not exceed 24 percent.\n Question: Approximately how much cashmere is produced each year?", "output": "It is estimated that about 6,500 tons of cashmere is produced each year."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: No Longer at Ease is a 1960 novel by Nigerian author Chinua Achebe. It is the story of an Igbo man, Obi Okonkwo, who leaves his village for an education in Britain and then a job in the Nigerian colonial civil service, but is conflicted between his African culture and Western lifestyle and ends up taking a bribe. The novel is the second work in what is sometimes referred to as the \"African trilogy\", following Things Fall Apart and preceding Arrow of God, though Arrow of God chronologically precedes it in the chronology of the trilogy. Things Fall Apart concerns the struggle of Obi Okonkwo's grandfather Okonkwo against the changes brought by the British.\n Question: Given a reference text about No Longer at Ease, tell me the name of the book that precedes it in the trilogy.", "output": "The book that precedes \"No Longer at Ease\" in the African trilogy is \"Things Fall Apart\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Swarcliffe Hall is a large hall that was constructed in 1800 in Birstwith, near Harrogate, England. The current house was built by John Greenwood in 1850, who engaged Major Rohde Hawkins as his architect, and is a Grade II listed building.\n\nThe original Swarcliffe Hall was built on the site c1800 by the Blessard family, however the current hall which was built by the Greenwood family was completed in 1850. Charlotte Bront\u00eb was employed as a governess at the hall in 1839 and it is said her time spent there helped inspire her novel Jane Eyre.\n\nPrince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence and Avondale visited the hall in 1888 and again during the following year whilst opening the New Bath Hospital in nearby Harrogate.\n Question: Which duke visited Swarcliffe Hall in 1888?", "output": "Prince Albert Victor"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Though the term large language model has no formal definition, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more. LLMs are general purpose models which excel at a wide range of tasks, as opposed to being trained for one specific task (such as sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or mathematical reasoning). The skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable, seems to be a function of the amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design.\n\nThough trained on simple tasks along the lines of predicting the next word in a sentence, neural language models with sufficient training and parameter counts are found to capture much of the syntax and semantics of human language. In addition, large language models demonstrate considerable general knowledge about the world, and are able to \"memorize\" a great quantity of facts during training.\n Question: What is the formal definition of a large language model?", "output": "The term large language model (LLM) does not have a formal definition. However, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A poor but hardworking widow once lived in a small hut with her children. One summer day, a pine cone fell on the earthen floor of the hut and took root. The widow's children cared for the tree, excited at the prospect of having a Christmas tree by winter. The tree grew, but when Christmas Eve arrived, they could not afford to decorate it. The children sadly went to bed and fell asleep. Early the next morning, they woke up and saw the tree covered with cobwebs. When they opened the windows, the first rays of sunlight touched the webs and turned them into gold and silver. The widow and her children were overjoyed. From then on, they never lived in poverty again.\n Question: Given this summarized version of the Legend of the Christmas Spider, what turned the spider webs into precious metals?", "output": "The first rays of sunlight, after touching the webs, turned them into gold and silver."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 1998\u201399 NBA season was the Hawks' 50th season in the National Basketball Association, and 31st season in Atlanta. On March 23, 1998, the owners of all 29 NBA teams voted 27\u20132 to reopen the league's collective bargaining agreement, seeking changes to the league's salary cap system, and a ceiling on individual player salaries. The National Basketball Players Association (NBPA) opposed to the owners' plan, and wanted raises for players who earned the league's minimum salary. After both sides failed to reach an agreement, the owners called for a lockout, which began on July 1, 1998, putting a hold on all team trades, free agent signings and training camp workouts, and cancelling many NBA regular season and preseason games. Due to the lockout, the NBA All-Star Game, which was scheduled to be played in Philadelphia on February 14, 1999, was also cancelled. However, on January 6, 1999, NBA commissioner David Stern, and NBPA director Billy Hunter finally reached an agreement to end the lockout. The deal was approved by both the players and owners, and was signed on January 20, ending the lockout after 204 days. The regular season began on February 5, and was cut short to just 50 games instead of the regular 82-game schedule\n Question: Why was there a lockout during the 1998-1999 NBA season?", "output": "The players and owners failed to reach an agreement on salaries."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In RollerCoaster Tycoon 2, players manage amusement parks and attempt to meet various goals to complete assigned scenarios. The game retains the isometric perspective of its predecessor, allowing for high compatibility with amusement parks made in the previous game. Various attractions, including transport rides, gentle rides, thrill rides, roller coasters, water rides, and shops or stalls, can be added to the parks as well as landscaping and decorations. The player satisfies park visitors' needs by building facilities and services such as food stalls, bathrooms, souvenir shops, ATMs, and information kiosks, as well as by hiring staff. The player must simultaneously balance the park's expenses and income.\n Question: What do you do as a player playing RollerCoaster Tycoon 2?", "output": "The player satisfies park visitors' needs by building facilities and services such as food stalls, bathrooms, souvenir shops, ATMs, and information kiosks, as well as by hiring staff. The player must simultaneously balance the park's expenses and income."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: High-functioning autism (HFA) is an autism classification where a person exhibits no intellectual disability but may show deficits in communication, emotion recognition and expression, and social interaction.HFA is not included in the American Psychological Association's DSM-5 or the World Health Organization's ICD-10, subdividing autism based on intellectual capabilities. High-functioning autism is characterised by features similar to those of Asperger syndrome. The defining characteristic psychologists recognise there is a significant delay in developing early speech and language skills before three years. The diagnostic criteria of Asperger syndrome exclude a general language delay.\n\nOther differences in features of people with high-functioning autism from those with Asperger syndrome include the following:\n\nLower verbal reasoning ability\nBetter visual/spatial skills (Being uniquely artistically talented)\nLess deviating locomotion (e.g. clumsiness)\nProblems functioning independently\nCuriosity and interest in many different things\nNot as good at empathising with other people\nMale to female ratio (4:1) is much smaller\n\nAs of 2013, Asperger syndrome and high-functioning autism are no longer terms the American Psychological Association uses and have been merged into autism spectrum disorder (ASD). As of 2021, the World Health Organization also retired the terms and merged them into autism spectrum disorder.\n Question: What is High-functioning autism?", "output": "High-functioning autism (HFA) is an autism classification where a person exhibits no intellectual disability but may show deficits in communication, emotion recognition and expression, and social interaction. High-functioning autism is characterised by features similar to those of Asperger syndrome. The defining characteristic psychologists recognise there is a significant delay in developing early speech and language skills before three years. The diagnostic criteria of Asperger syndrome exclude a general language delay."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kosmos 1375 was placed into a low Earth orbit with a perigee of 986 kilometres (613 mi), an apogee of 1,003 kilometres (623 mi), 65.8 degrees of inclination, and an orbital period of 105 minutes. On 18 June 1982, it was successfully intercepted and destroyed by Kosmos 1379 in the final Soviet anti-satellite weapons test to be conducted. As of 2022, debris is still in orbit.\n\nKosmos 1375 was the last of ten Lira satellites to be launched, of which all but the first were successful. Lira was derived from the earlier DS-P1-M satellite, which it replaced.\n Question: How many of the Lira satellites were successful?", "output": "10 were launched, 1 was not successful, so 10-1 = 9 were successful."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lawson, Inc. (\u682a\u5f0f\u4f1a\u793e\u30ed\u30fc\u30bd\u30f3, Kabushiki gaisha R\u014dson) is a convenience store franchise chain in Japan. The store originated in the United States in Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, but exists today as a Japanese company based in Shinagawa, Tokyo.\n Question: What is Lawson in Japan?", "output": "Lawson is a convenience store franchise chain in Japan"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The origins of the travelling salesman problem are unclear. A handbook for travelling salesmen from 1832 mentions the problem and includes example tours through Germany and Switzerland, but contains no mathematical treatment.\n\n\nWilliam Rowan Hamilton\nThe TSP was mathematically formulated in the 19th century by the Irish mathematician William Rowan Hamilton and by the British mathematician Thomas Kirkman. Hamilton's icosian game was a recreational puzzle based on finding a Hamiltonian cycle. The general form of the TSP appears to have been first studied by mathematicians during the 1930s in Vienna and at Harvard, notably by Karl Menger, who defines the problem, considers the obvious brute-force algorithm, and observes the non-optimality of the nearest neighbour heuristic:\n\nWe denote by messenger problem (since in practice this question should be solved by each postman, anyway also by many travelers) the task to find, for finitely many points whose pairwise distances are known, the shortest route connecting the points. Of course, this problem is solvable by finitely many trials. Rules which would push the number of trials below the number of permutations of the given points, are not known. The rule that one first should go from the starting point to the closest point, then to the point closest to this, etc., in general does not yield the shortest route.\n\nIt was first considered mathematically in the 1930s by Merrill M. Flood who was looking to solve a school bus routing problem. Hassler Whitney at Princeton University generated interest in the problem, which he called the \"48 states problem\". The earliest publication using the phrase \"travelling salesman problem\" was the 1949 RAND Corporation report by Julia Robinson, \"On the Hamiltonian game (a traveling salesman problem).\"\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, the problem became increasingly popular in scientific circles in Europe and the United States after the RAND Corporation in Santa Monica offered prizes for steps in solving the problem. Notable contributions were made by George Dantzig, Delbert Ray Fulkerson and Selmer M. Johnson from the RAND Corporation, who expressed the problem as an integer linear program and developed the cutting plane method for its solution. They wrote what is considered the seminal paper on the subject in which with these new methods they solved an instance with 49 cities to optimality by constructing a tour and proving that no other tour could be shorter. Dantzig, Fulkerson and Johnson, however, speculated that given a near optimal solution we may be able to find optimality or prove optimality by adding a small number of extra inequalities (cuts). They used this idea to solve their initial 49 city problem using a string model. They found they only needed 26 cuts to come to a solution for their 49 city problem. While this paper did not give an algorithmic approach to TSP problems, the ideas that lay within it were indispensable to later creating exact solution methods for the TSP, though it would take 15 years to find an algorithmic approach in creating these cuts. As well as cutting plane methods, Dantzig, Fulkerson and Johnson used branch and bound algorithms perhaps for the first time.\n\nIn 1959, Jillian Beardwood, J.H. Halton and John Hammersley published an article entitled \"The Shortest Path Through Many Points\" in the journal of the Cambridge Philosophical Society. The Beardwood\u2013Halton\u2013Hammersley theorem provides a practical solution to the travelling salesman problem. The authors derived an asymptotic formula to determine the length of the shortest route for a salesman who starts at a home or office and visits a fixed number of locations before returning to the start.\n\nIn the following decades, the problem was studied by many researchers from mathematics, computer science, chemistry, physics, and other sciences. In the 1960s, however, a new approach was created, that instead of seeking optimal solutions would produce a solution whose length is provably bounded by a multiple of the optimal length, and in doing so would create lower bounds for the problem; these lower bounds would then be used with branch and bound approaches. One method of doing this was to create a minimum spanning tree of the graph and then double all its edges, which produces the bound that the length of an optimal tour is at most twice the weight of a minimum spanning tree.\n\nIn 1976, Christofides and Serdyukov independently of each other made a big advance in this direction: the Christofides-Serdyukov algorithm yields a solution that, in the worst case, is at most 1.5 times longer than the optimal solution. As the algorithm was simple and quick, many hoped it would give way to a near optimal solution method. However, this hope for improvement did not immediately materialize, and Christofides-Serdyukov remained the method with the best worst-case scenario until 2011, when a (very) slightly improved approximation algorithm was developed for the subset of \"graphical\" TSPs. In 2020 this tiny improvement was extended to the full (metric) TSP.\n\nRichard M. Karp showed in 1972 that the Hamiltonian cycle problem was NP-complete, which implies the NP-hardness of TSP. This supplied a mathematical explanation for the apparent computational difficulty of finding optimal tours.\n\nGreat progress was made in the late 1970s and 1980, when Gr\u00f6tschel, Padberg, Rinaldi and others managed to exactly solve instances with up to 2,392 cities, using cutting planes and branch and bound.\n\nIn the 1990s, Applegate, Bixby, Chv\u00e1tal, and Cook developed the program Concorde that has been used in many recent record solutions. Gerhard Reinelt published the TSPLIB in 1991, a collection of benchmark instances of varying difficulty, which has been used by many research groups for comparing results. In 2006, Cook and others computed an optimal tour through an 85,900-city instance given by a microchip layout problem, currently the largest solved TSPLIB instance. For many other instances with millions of cities, solutions can be found that are guaranteed to be within 2\u20133% of an optimal tour.\n Question: What is the history of the travelling salesman problem throughout the years in a short bulleted list?", "output": "* 19th century - mathematically formulated for first time by the Irish mathematician William Rowan Hamilton and by the British mathematician Thomas Kirkman\n* 1930s - First studied by mathematicians in Vienna and at Harvard, most notably by Karl Menger and Merill M. Flood who was looking to solve a school bus routing problem.\n* 1959 - Jillian Beardwood, J.H. Halton and John Hammersley published an article entitled \"The Shortest Path Through Many Points\" in the journal of the Cambridge Philosophical Society, which provided the first practical solution.\n* 1960s - new approach is created, which produce a solution whose length is provably bounded by a multiple of the optimal length.\n* 1972 - Richard M. Karp showed that the Hamiltonian cycle problem was NP-complete, which implies the NP-hardness of traveling salesman problem.\n* 1976 - Christofides and Serdyukov independently invented new algorithm, which yields a solution that in the worst case is at most 1.5 times longer than the optimal solution.\n* 1990s -  Applegate, Bixby, Chv\u00e1tal, and Cook developed the program Concorde that has been used in many recent record solutions.\n* 1991 - Gerhard Reinelt published the TSPLIB, a collection of benchmark instances of varying difficulty, which has been used by many research groups for comparing results\n* 2006 - Cook and others computed an optimal tour through an 85,900-city instance given by a microchip layout problem, currently the largest solved TSPLIB instance.\n* 2011 - Slightly improved approximation algorithm is developed for the subset of \"graphical\" traveling salesman problem.\n* 2020 - The slightly improved approximation algorithm developed for the subset of \"graphical\" is extended to cover the full traveling salesman problem."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In October 2006, YouTube was bought by Google for $1.65 billion. Google's ownership of YouTube expanded the site's business model, expanding from generating revenue from advertisements alone to offering paid content such as movies and exclusive content produced by YouTube. It also offers YouTube Premium, a paid subscription option for watching content without ads. YouTube also approved creators to participate in Google's AdSense program, which seeks to generate more revenue for both parties. YouTube reported revenue of $29.2 billion in 2022. In 2021, YouTube's annual advertising revenue increased to $28.8 billion, an increase in revenue of 9 billion from the previous year.\n Question: When did Google purchase YouTube", "output": "Google purchased YouTube in October 2006 for $1.65 billion"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Legend of Zelda, originally released in Japan as The Hyrule Fantasy: Zelda no Densetsu, is a 1986 action-adventure game developed and published by Nintendo. The first game of The Legend of Zelda series, it is set in the fantasy land of Hyrule and centers on an elf-like boy named Link, who aims to collect the eight fragments of the Triforce of Wisdom in order to rescue Princess Zelda from the antagonist Ganon. During the course of the game, the player controls Link from a top-down perspective and navigates throughout the overworld and dungeons, collecting weapons, defeating enemies and uncovering secrets along the way.\n Question: Given this paragraph about video games, when was the Legend of Zelda originally released?", "output": "1986"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Legislative Council consisted of six official members appointed by the High Commissioner and twelve elected members, three of which were Muslims and nine of which were non-Muslims.\n\nThe island was divided into three constituencies, each formed of two districts. Each constituency elected one Muslim and three non-Muslims. Muslim voters had one vote, whilst non-Muslims could vote for up to three candidates. Due to the high levels of illiteracy, voting was not secret, with voters required to tell the polling officers their candidates of choice, often in front of agents of the candidates.\n\nSuffrage was limited to men aged over 21 who had been permanent residents during the five years prior to the elections, and who had paid either the verghi tax (which was levied as an annual payment of one four-thousandth of a property's value, 4% of rental income or 3% on profits or salaries) or rent for a dwelling or shop within the last year. However, of the estimated 40,000 taxpayers in the territory at the time of the elections, only those that had been able to pay their taxes on time were able to register to vote. The number of registered voters for the non-Muslim seats dropped from 15,408 in 1886 to 10,030.\n Question: given this reference text about 1891 Cypriot legislative election, What caused the non-Muslim seats to drop in 1886 to 10,030?", "output": "Due to the requirement of paying your taxes on time in the previous year to be able to register to vote, the number of voters that were non-Muslim dropped."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ayrton Senna began his motorsport career in karting, moved up to open-wheel racing in 1981 and won the 1983 British Formula Three Championship. He made his Formula One debut with Toleman-Hart in 1984, before moving to Lotus-Renault the following year and winning six Grands Prix over the next three seasons. In 1988, he joined Frenchman Alain Prost at McLaren-Honda. Between them, they won all but one of the 16 Grands Prix that year, and Senna claimed his first World Championship. Prost claimed the championship in 1989, and Senna his second and third championships in 1990 and 1991. In 1992, the Williams-Renault combination began to dominate Formula One. Senna nonetheless managed to finish the 1993 season as runner-up, winning five races and negotiating a move to Williams in 1994.\n Question: Given this paragraph, who was Ayrton Senna's teammate at McLaren-Honda?", "output": "While at McLaren-Honda, Alain Prost was Ayrton Senna's teammate."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018, Pub. L. 115\u201397 (text) (PDF), is a congressional revenue act of the United States originally introduced in Congress as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), that amended the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Major elements of the changes include reducing tax rates for businesses and individuals, increasing the standard deduction and family tax credits, eliminating personal exemptions and making it less beneficial to itemize deductions, limiting deductions for state and local income taxes and property taxes, further limiting the mortgage interest deduction, reducing the alternative minimum tax for individuals and eliminating it for corporations, doubling the estate tax exemption, and set the penalty enforcing individual mandate of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) at $0.\n\nThe Act is based on tax reform advocated by congressional Republicans and the Trump administration. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reported that under the Act individuals and pass-through entities like partnerships and S corporations would receive about $1.125 trillion in net benefits (i.e. net tax cuts offset by reduced healthcare subsidies) over 10 years, while corporations would receive around $320 billion in benefits. The CBO estimated that implementing the Act would add an estimated $2.289 trillion to the national debt over ten years, or about $1.891 trillion after taking into account macroeconomic feedback effects, in addition to the $9.8 trillion increase forecast under the current policy baseline and existing $20 trillion national debt.[8\n Question: Given a reference text about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, provide a bulleted list of the main elements of the act.", "output": "The main elements of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act are:\n- Reducing tax rates for businesses and individuals\n- Increasing the standard deduction and family tax credits\n- Eliminating personal exemptions\n- Limiting deductions for state and local income and property taxes\n- Limiting the mortgage interest deduction\n- Reducing the alternative minimum tax\n- Doubling the estate tax exemption\n- Setting the penalty enforcing individual mandate of the Affordable Care Act at $0"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A recurrent neural network (RNN) is a class of artificial neural networks where connections between nodes can create a cycle, allowing output from some nodes to affect subsequent input to the same nodes. This allows it to exhibit temporal dynamic behavior. Derived from feedforward neural networks, RNNs can use their internal state (memory) to process variable length sequences of inputs. This makes them applicable to tasks such as unsegmented, connected handwriting recognition or speech recognition. Recurrent neural networks are theoretically Turing complete and can run arbitrary programs to process arbitrary sequences of inputs.\n\nThe term \"recurrent neural network\" is used to refer to the class of networks with an infinite impulse response, whereas \"convolutional neural network\" refers to the class of finite impulse response. Both classes of networks exhibit temporal dynamic behavior. A finite impulse recurrent network is a directed acyclic graph that can be unrolled and replaced with a strictly feedforward neural network, while an infinite impulse recurrent network is a directed cyclic graph that can not be unrolled.\n\nBoth finite impulse and infinite impulse recurrent networks can have additional stored states, and the storage can be under direct control by the neural network. The storage can also be replaced by another network or graph if that incorporates time delays or has feedback loops. Such controlled states are referred to as gated state or gated memory, and are part of long short-term memory networks (LSTMs) and gated recurrent units. This is also called Feedback Neural Network (FNN).\n Question: Given these paragraphs, tell me what a recurrent neural network , and how it differs from a convolutional neural network.", "output": "A recurrent neural network is a class of artificial neural networks where connections between nodes can create a cycle, allowing output from some nodes to affect subsequent input to the same nodes.The term \"recurrent neural network\" is used to refer to the class of networks with an infinite impulse response, whereas \"convolutional neural network\" refers to the class of finite impulse response."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Netherlands' mainstream video games market, not taking into consideration the serious and casual games, is the sixth largest in Europe. In 2008, the Dutch market took up 3.95% of the entire European market in total sales and 4.19% in software sales.\n\nA significant part of the Netherlands' gaming industry is in serious games, in which Dutch companies make a significant part of the worldwide industry.\n\nIn the Netherlands, an estimated of 4,000 people are working in the games industry, at more than 600 companies. Over 45 of the companies are located in the Dutch Game Garden, a government subsidized organization with the aim of promoting and improving the video games industry in the Netherlands.\n Question: Given this paragraph about video games in the Netherlands, how many people work in the games industry?", "output": "4,000"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pandemonium 2 is a psychedelic 2.5D game; specifically, it renders characters and environments with polygons and uses a 3D camera to create the appearance of 3-D, while gameplay is actually on a 2-D plane. Players can choose to be either Nikki or Fargus - who each have different specialties - with the option to change for each level. The player characters' abilities have been expanded over those in Pandemonium! with the ability to climb ropes, crawl, and pull themselves up ledges. During the quest, players can earn extra lives by collecting treasure.\n\nUnique powers collected during gameplay may replace, extend or add to previous powers, depending on which character is in play and which power has been obtained. The characters handle the unique powers differently. For instance, collecting the \"fire power\" allows Nikki to shoot destructive fireballs, while it grants Fargus invincibility and a deadly touch, but requires him to constantly move forward. Machines and equipment are also available throughout the game, although they are tied to certain areas.\n Question: What is the negative side effect of the \"fire power\" on Fargus?", "output": "It requires him to constantly move forward."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lionel Andr\u00e9s Messi[note 1] (Spanish pronunciation: [ljo\u02c8nel an\u02c8d\u027ees \u02c8mesi] (listen); born 24 June 1987), also known as Leo Messi, is an Argentine professional footballer who plays as a forward for Ligue 1 club Paris Saint-Germain and captains the Argentina national team. Widely regarded as one of the greatest players of all time, Messi has won a record seven Ballon d'Or awards[note 2] and a record six European Golden Shoes, and in 2020 he was named to the Ballon d'Or Dream Team. Until leaving the club in 2021, he had spent his entire professional career with Barcelona, where he won a club-record 34 trophies, including 10 La Liga titles, seven Copa del Rey titles and four UEFA Champions Leagues. With his country, he won the 2021 Copa Am\u00e9rica and the 2022 FIFA World Cup. A prolific goalscorer and creative playmaker, Messi holds the records for most goals in La Liga (474), most hat-tricks in La Liga (36) and the UEFA Champions League (eight), and most assists in La Liga (192) and the Copa Am\u00e9rica (17). He also has the most international goals by a South American male (102). Messi has scored over 800 senior career goals for club and country, and has the most goals by a player for a single club (672).\n Question: Given a reference tax about a footballer, tell me when they were born, what is their nationalities and which years they won the FIFA World cup.", "output": "Lionel Andr\u00e9s Messi, also known as Leo Messi, was born 24 June 1987. He is an Argentine professional footballer. In 2022, He won 2022 FIFA World Cup with his country."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A refugee camp is a place built by governments or NGOs (such as the Red Cross) to receive refugees, internally displaced persons or sometimes also other migrants. It is usually designed to offer acute and temporary accommodation and services and any more permanent facilities and structures often banned. People may stay in these camps for many years, receiving emergency food, education and medical aid until it is safe enough to return to their country of origin. There, refugees are at risk of disease, child soldier and terrorist recruitment, and physical and sexual violence. There are estimated to be 700 refugee camp locations worldwide.\n Question: Given a reference text about refugees, tell me about refugee camps.", "output": "A refugee camps are generally built by governments or non-government organizations, such as the Red Cross. They are built to receive displaced individuals."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: With the onset of the Industrial Revolution in Britain, an unprecedented growth in urbanisation took place, and the number of High Streets (the primary street for retail in Britain) rapidly grew. London was the world's largest city from about 1831 to 1925, with a population density of 325 per hectare. In addition to the growing number of stores selling goods such as Harding, Howell & Co. on Pall Mall\u2014a contender for the first department store\u2014the streets had scores of street sellers loudly advertising their goods and services. London's overcrowded conditions led to cholera epidemics, claiming 14,000 lives in 1848, and 6,000 in 1866. Rising traffic congestion led to the creation of the world's first local urban rail network. The Metropolitan Board of Works oversaw infrastructure expansion in the capital and some surrounding counties; it was abolished in 1889 when the London County Council was created out of county areas surrounding the capital.\n Question: Given this paragraph about London, give me one reason why epidemics were spread in London.", "output": "London's overcrowded conditions is one reason why epidemics spread in London."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: From 1984 to 1989 Stryk studied mathematics and computer science at the Technical University of Munich. In 1994 he received his doctorate in mathematics and then habilitated at the university. He was then postdoctoral researcher at TU Munich. Since 2000 he is professor of simulation, system optimization and robotics at the department of computer science of the Technische Universit\u00e4t Darmstadt. From April 2011 to March 2013 he was dean of the department. He was visiting professor and lecturer at the University of California, San Diego, and the Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Brazil. Stryk is vice president of Robocup. Since 2018 he has been building the German Rescue Robotics Centre.\n Question: What did Stryk study at the Technical University of Munich?", "output": "Stryk studied mathematics and computer science at the Technical University of Munich."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Josh Logan (born 1980), born Josh Corder, is a singer-songwriter, vocalist and guitarist best known for his performances on the television shows Rock Star: Supernova and The Voice. By the age of 15, Logan was on-stage as the front man for the local New England rock band Gunshy. The band released one album in 1996, but broke up when Logan was 18. After the breakup, Logan played at local venues for two years as a solo artist, hosting open mic nights as well as performing, to hone his skills as a solo musician.\n Question: How old was Josh Logan when Gunshy released its album?", "output": "Josh Logan was 16 years old. He was born in 1980 and the album released in 1996, so 1996-1980 = 16"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 2000 World Series was the championship series of Major League Baseball's (MLB) 2000 season. The 96th edition of the World Series, it was a best-of-seven playoff between crosstown opponents, the two-time defending World Series champions and American League (AL) champion New York Yankees and the National League (NL) champion New York Mets. The Yankees defeated the Mets, four games to one, to win their third consecutive championship and 26th overall. The series was often referred to as the \"Subway Series\", referring to the longstanding matchup between New York baseball teams; it was the first World Series contested between two New York teams since the 1956 World Series and the first since the New York Giants and the Brooklyn Dodgers moved west to California (as the current San Francisco Giants and Los Angeles Dodgers, respectively) in 1958 and the subsequent formation of the Mets in 1962. This World Series that featured teams from the same city or state, was the first of its kind since 1989 between the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants. Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter was named the World Series Most Valuable Player.\n Question: Who won the 2000 World Series?", "output": "New York Yankees defeated the NY Mets 4 games to 1"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Leaning Tower of Pisa (Italian: torre pendente di Pisa), or simply, the Tower of Pisa (torre di Pisa [\u02c8torre di \u02c8pi\u02d0za; \u02c8pi\u02d0sa]), is the campanile, or freestanding bell tower, of Pisa Cathedral. It is known for its nearly four-degree lean, the result of an unstable foundation. The tower is one of three structures in the Pisa's Cathedral Square (Piazza del Duomo), which includes the cathedral and Pisa Baptistry.\n\nThe height of the tower is 55.86 metres (183 feet 3 inches) from the ground on the low side and 56.67 m (185 ft 11 in) on the high side. The width of the walls at the base is 2.44 m (8 ft 0 in). Its weight is estimated at 14,500 tonnes (16,000 short tons). The tower has 296 or 294 steps; the seventh floor has two fewer steps on the north-facing staircase.\n Question: Given the following paragraph, how tall is the Leaning Tower of Pisa?", "output": "The height of the tower is 55.86 metres (183 feet 3 inches) from the ground on the low side and 56.67 m (185 ft 11 in) on the high side."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Singapore (/\u02c8s\u026a\u014b(\u0261)\u0259p\u0254\u02d0r/ (listen)), officially the Republic of Singapore, is an island country and city-state in maritime Southeast Asia. It lies about one degree of latitude (137 kilometres or 85 miles) north of the equator, off the southern tip of the Malay Peninsula, bordering the Strait of Malacca to the west, the Singapore Strait to the south, the South China Sea to the east, and the Straits of Johor to the north. The country's territory is composed of one main island, 63 satellite islands and islets, and one outlying islet; the combined area of these has increased by 25% since the country's independence as a result of extensive land reclamation projects. It has the third highest population density in the world. With a multicultural population and recognising the need to respect cultural identities of the major ethnic groups within the nation, Singapore has four official languages: English, Malay, Mandarin, and Tamil. English is the lingua franca and numerous public services are available only in English. Multi-racialism is enshrined in the constitution and continues to shape national policies in education, housing, and politics.\n Question: Does Singapore have more than five official languages?", "output": "No, Singapore has only four official languages."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mushulatubbee (Choctaw AmoshuliTabi, \"Determined to Kill\") (born c. 1750\u20131770, died c. 1838) was the chief of the Choctaw Okla Tannap (\"Lower Towns\"), one of the three major Choctaw divisions during the early 19th century. When the Principal Chief Greenwood LeFlore stayed in Mississippi at the time of removal, Mushulatubbee was elected as principal chief, leading the tribe to Indian Territory.\n\nIn 1812 he had led his warriors to assist General Andrew Jackson in the war against the Creek Red Sticks, known as the Creek Wars.\n\nIn December 1824 Mushulatubbee was one of three principal chiefs leading a Choctaw delegation to Washington to seek help against encroaching European-American settlers. Pushmataha and Apuckshunubbee were the other chiefs; Apuckshunubbee, age 80, died before they reached Washington, and Pushmataha died of smallpox in the capital soon after their meeting with the government.\n\nOn 26 September 1830, together with the Principal Chief Greenwood LeFlore and others, Mushulatubbee signed the Treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek, which ceded to the US government most of the remaining Choctaw territory in Mississippi and Alabama in exchange for territory in Indian Territory. Other spellings for his name include: Mosholetvbbi, AmoshuliTvbi, Musholatubbee, Moshaleh Tubbee, and Mushulatubba.\n\nMushulatubbee.\n Question: Given a reference text about Mushulatubbee, when did he sign the Treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek", "output": "Mushulatubbee signed the Treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek on September 26, 1830."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Antestor (Norwegian: [\u02c8\u0251\u0300nt\u0259stu\u02d0\u027d]) is a Norwegian Christian extreme metal band formed in 1990 in Jessheim. Credited for starting the northern European Christian black metal scene, Antestor is the only Christian band to have an album released by Cacophonous Records, which has also released records by bands such as Dimmu Borgir, Sigh, and Cradle of Filth. The band's only release on Cacophonous, The Return of the Black Death, proved influential for the Christian black metal movement, and has sold over 10,000 copies.\n\nIn the late 1990s they dubbed their musical style as \"sorrow metal\" rather than black metal because the black metal movement was publicly affiliated with Satanism in Norway. According to HM magazine, the progressive elements on the debut album, Martyrium, were possibly ahead of their time in the Norwegian extreme metal scene.\n\nThe group has gone through several line-up changes over the years, and currently Antestor consists of the founding guitarist Lars Stokstad (Vemod), vocalist Ronny Hansen (Vrede), bassist Erik Normann Aanonsen, guitarist Robert Bordevick, and drummer Henning B\u00f8rven. The original vocalist Kjetil Molnes (Martyr) and drummer Svein Sander (Armoth) left the band around 2000, and the members of a fellow Norwegian black metal group, Vaakevandring, joined Antestor. The reputable Norwegian extreme metal drummer Jan Axel Blomberg (Hellhammer) played session drums for their 2005 album The Forsaken and Det tapte liv EP. A fourth studio album, Omen, was released in 2012.\n Question: Why was Antestor known as sorrow metal?", "output": "Because black metal was associated with Satanism in Antestor's home country Norway, and they are a Christian extreme metal band."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Octavia Estelle Butler (June 22, 1947 \u2013 February 24, 2006) was an American science fiction author and a multiple recipient of the Hugo and Nebula awards. In 1995, Butler became the first science-fiction writer to receive a MacArthur Fellowship. Born in Pasadena, California, Butler was raised by her widowed mother. Extremely shy as a child, Butler found an outlet at the library reading fantasy, and in writing. She began writing science fiction as a teenager. She attended community college during the Black Power movement. While participating in a local writer's workshop, she was encouraged to attend the Clarion Workshop, then held in Pennsylvania, which focused on science fiction.\n Question: What is significant about Octavia Butler?", "output": "She was the first science fiction writer to receive a MacArthur Fellowship."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Italy Avenue (Spanish: Avenida Italia) is a major thoroughfare in Montevideo, Uruguay. Its name honors the country from whose immigrants about 40% of Uruguayans descend. It runs almost parallel to that of Gral Rivera Avenue, the Rambla and Camino Carrasco, constituting the main arterial road of the city, since it connects with the network of highways that lead to the east of the country.\n\nIt extends through several neighborhoods heading east, and ends with the intersection with Avenida Luis Giannattasio (which runs through Ciudad de la Costa and Avenida de las Am\u00e9ricas (which leads to the Carrasco International Airport and the Interbalnearia and 101 routes), in the Canelones Department.\n\nIn 2017, a project was presented for the construction of a tunnel for Avenida Italia, extended below Centenario Ave. On March 18, 2021, the uneven passage of Italia and Centenario avenues was officially operational, on the path that goes to the Center (westbound). This is the third tunnel in the city, after the one on 8 de Octubre Ave and the City Hall.\n Question: What direction did Italy Avenue go in Uruguay per this block of text?", "output": "east to west"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The electrolytic detector, or liquid barretter, was a type of detector (demodulator) used in early radio receivers. First used by Canadian radio researcher Reginald Fessenden in 1903, it was used until about 1913, after which it was superseded by crystal detectors and vacuum tube detectors such as the Fleming valve and Audion (triode). It was considered very sensitive and reliable compared to other detectors available at the time such as the magnetic detector and the coherer. It was one of the first rectifying detectors, able to receive AM (sound) transmissions. On December 24, 1906, US Naval ships with radio receivers equipped with Fessenden's electrolytic detectors received the first AM radio broadcast from Fessenden's Brant Rock, Massachusetts transmitter, consisting of a program of Christmas music.\n Question: Given a reference text about the electrolytic detector, when was it replaced and what replaced it?", "output": "The electrolytic detector was replaced around 1913 by crystal and vacuum tube detectors."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Amazon rainforest, also called Amazon jungle or Amazonia, is a moist broadleaf tropical rainforest in the Amazon biome that covers most of the Amazon basin of South America. This basin encompasses 7,000,000 square km (2,700,000 square miles), of which 5,500,000 square km (2,100,000 square miles) are covered by the rainforest. This region includes territory belonging to nine nations and 3,344 formally acknowledged indigenous territories.\n\nThe majority of the forest, 60%, is in Brazil, followed by Peru with 13%, Colombia with 10%, and with minor amounts in Bolivia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Suriname, and Venezuela. Four nations have \"Amazonas\" as the name of one of their first-level administrative regions, and France uses the name \"Guiana Amazonian Park\" for French Guiana's protected rainforest area. The Amazon represents over half of the planet's remaining rainforests, and comprises the largest and most biodiverse tract of tropical rainforest in the world, with an estimated 390 billion individual trees in about 16,000 species.\n\nMore than 30 million people of 350 different ethnic groups live in the Amazon, which are subdivided into 9 different national political systems and 3,344 formally acknowledged indigenous territories. Indigenous peoples make up 9% of the total population, and 60 of the groups remain largely isolated.\n Question: Given the reference text about the Amazon Rainforest, where is it located, including all countries it spreads across, how large is it, and how many people reside within it?", "output": "Located in South America, the Amazon rainforest spreads across Brazil, Peru. Columbia, Bolivia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Suriname, and Venezuela.  The rainforest covers 5,500,000 square km (2,100,000 square miles) where more than 30 million people reside."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific tasks.\n\nProperties\nThough the term large language model has no formal definition, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more. LLMs are general purpose models which excel at a wide range of tasks, as opposed to being trained for one specific task (such as sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or mathematical reasoning). The skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable, seems to be a function of the amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design.\n\nThough trained on simple tasks along the lines of predicting the next word in a sentence, neural language models with sufficient training and parameter counts are found to capture much of the syntax and semantics of human language. In addition, large language models demonstrate considerable general knowledge about the world, and are able to \"memorize\" a great quantity of facts during training.\n\nHallucinations\nMain article: Hallucination (artificial intelligence)\nIn artificial intelligence in general, and in large language models in particular, a \"hallucination\" is a confident response that does not seem to be justified by the model's training data.\n\nEmergent abilities\n\nOn a number of natural language benchmarks involving tasks such as question answering, models perform no better than random chance until they reach a certain scale (in this case, measured by training computation), at which point their performance sharply increases. These are examples of emergent abilities.\nUnpredictable abilities that have been observed in large language models but that were not present in simpler models (and that were not explicitly designed into the model) are usually called \"emergent abilities\". Researchers note that such abilities \"cannot be predicted simply by extrapolating the performance of smaller models\". These abilities are discovered rather than programmed-in or designed, in some cases only after the LLM has been publicly deployed. Hundreds of emergent abilities have been described. Examples include multi-step arithmetic, taking college-level exams, identifying the intended meaning of a word, chain-of-thought prompting, decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet, unscrambling a word\u2019s letters, identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs.\n\nArchitecture and training\nLarge language models have most commonly used the transformer architecture, which, since 2018, has become the standard deep learning technique for sequential data (previously, recurrent architectures such as the LSTM were most common). LLMs are trained in an unsupervised manner on unannotated text. A left-to-right transformer is trained to maximize the probability assigned to the next word in the training data, given the previous context. Alternatively, an LLM may use a bidirectional transformer (as in the example of BERT), which assigns a probability distribution over words given access to both preceding and following context. In addition to the task of predicting the next word or \"filling in the blanks\", LLMs may be trained on auxiliary tasks which test their understanding of the data distribution such as Next Sentence Prediction (NSP), in which pairs of sentences are presented and the model must predict whether they appear side-by-side in the training corpus.\n\nThe earliest LLMs were trained on corpora having on the order of billions of words. The first model in OpenAI's GPT series was trained in 2018 on BookCorpus, consisting of 985 million words. In the same year, BERT was trained on a combination of BookCorpus and English Wikipedia, totalling 3.3 billion words. In the years since then, training corpora for LLMs have increased by orders of magnitude, reaching up to hundreds of billions or trillions of tokens.\n\nLLMs are computationally expensive to train. A 2020 study estimated the cost of training a 1.5 billion parameter model (1-2 orders of magnitude smaller than the state of the art at the time) at $1.6 million.\n\nA 2020 analysis found that neural language models' capability (as measured by training loss) increased smoothly in a power law relationship with number of parameters, quantity of training data, and computation used for training. These relationships were tested over a wide range of values (up to seven orders of magnitude) and no attenuation of the relationship was observed at the highest end of the range (including for network sizes up to trillions of parameters).\n\nApplication to downstream tasks\nBetween 2018 and 2020, the standard method for harnessing an LLM for a specific natural language processing (NLP) task was to fine tune the model with additional task-specific training. It has subsequently been found that more powerful LLMs such as GPT-3 can solve tasks without additional training via \"prompting\" techniques, in which the problem to be solved is presented to the model as a text prompt, possibly with some textual examples of similar problems and their solutions.\n\nFine-tuning\nMain article: Fine-tuning (machine learning)\nFine-tuning is the practice of modifying an existing pretrained language model by training it (in a supervised fashion) on a specific task (e.g. sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or part-of-speech tagging). It is a form of transfer learning. It generally involves the introduction of a new set of weights connecting the final layer of the language model to the output of the downstream task. The original weights of the language model may be \"frozen\", such that only the new layer of weights connecting them to the output are learned during training. Alternatively, the original weights may receive small updates (possibly with earlier layers frozen).\n\nPrompting\nSee also: Prompt engineering and Few-shot learning (natural language processing)\nIn the prompting paradigm, popularized by GPT-3, the problem to be solved is formulated via a text prompt, which the model must solve by providing a completion (via inference). In \"few-shot prompting\", the prompt includes a small number of examples of similar (problem, solution) pairs. For example, a sentiment analysis task of labelling the sentiment of a movie review could be prompted as follows:\n\nReview: This movie stinks.\nSentiment: negative\n\nReview: This movie is fantastic!\nSentiment:\n\nIf the model outputs \"positive\", then it has correctly solved the task. In zero-shot prompting, no solve examples are provided. An example of a zero-shot prompt for the same sentiment analysis task would be \"The sentiment associated with the movie review 'This movie is fantastic!' is\".\n\nFew-shot performance of LLMs has been shown to achieve competitive results on NLP tasks, sometimes surpassing prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Examples of such NLP tasks are translation, question answering, cloze tasks, unscrambling words, and using a novel word in a sentence. The creation and optimisation of such prompts is called prompt engineering.\n\nInstruction tuning\nInstruction tuning is a form of fine-tuning designed to facilitate more natural and accurate zero-shot prompting interactions. Given a text input, a pretrained language model will generate a completion which matches the distribution of text on which it was trained. A naive language model given the prompt \"Write an essay about the main themes of Hamlet.\" might provide a completion such as \"A late penalty of 10% per day will be applied to submissions received after March 17.\" In instruction tuning, the language model is trained on many examples of tasks formulated as natural language instructions, along with appropriate responses. Various techniques for instruction tuning have been applied in practice. OpenAI's InstructGPT protocol involves supervised fine-tuning on a dataset of human-generated (prompt, response) pairs, followed by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), in which a reward function was learned based on a dataset of human preferences. Another technique, \"self-instruct\", fine-tunes the language model on a training set of examples which are themselves generated by an LLM (bootstrapped from a small initial set of human-generated examples).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Large language models, what are \"emergent abilities\"?", "output": "Unpredictable abilities that have been observed in large language models but that were not present in simpler models (and that were not explicitly designed into the model) are usually called \"emergent abilities\". Researchers note that such abilities \"cannot be predicted simply by extrapolating the performance of smaller models\". These abilities are discovered rather than programmed-in or designed, in some cases only after the LLM has been publicly deployed."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ortiz was born on November 18, 1975, in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, as the oldest of four children of Enrique (Leo) Ortiz and \u00c1ngela Rosa Arias. As a boy, he followed the careers of standout pitcher Ram\u00f3n Martinez and his younger brother Pedro, attending games whenever he could and building a friendship with Pedro that would only grow over the years. Ortiz graduated from Estudia Espaillat High School in the Dominican Republic, and was a standout baseball and basketball player there.\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Ortiz\n Question: Given this reference text, what sport other than baseball did David Ortiz play growing up, how many children did his parents have, and what age is he today?", "output": "David Ortiz played basketball in addition to baseball. His parents had five total children, and today (on April 5, 2023) he is 47 years old."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Living on Video (also known as Message on the Radio) is the first studio album by the Canadian synth-pop group Trans-X. Recorded and released in 1983 by Mantra Records, Message on the Radio was a seven-track album. Produced by Daniel Bernier, the record featured all instruments played by Pascal Languirand with Anne Brosseau on supporting vocals. The album was reissued in 1993 and contains a total of 14 tracks.\n Question: What album by Trans-X was released in 1983 and how many songs were on it?", "output": "Trans-X released the album Living on Video in 1983. It included 7 tracks."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Oxygen Not Included is a survival simulation video game developed and published by Klei Entertainment. After being released on Steam's early access since February 2017, the game was officially released on July 30, 2019.\n\nOxygen Not Included\u00a0is a\u00a0simulation\u00a0survival game.\u00a0At the start of a new game, three colonists (referred to as duplicants) find themselves in an asteroid with isolated pockets of breathable atmosphere, with no memory of how they got there. The player is tasked with managing and taking care of these duplicants as they try to survive and create a sustainable makeshift\u00a0space colony. The player must monitor the duplicants' hunger, waste, and oxygen levels to keep them alive.\u00a0Each game's world is\u00a0procedurally generated.\u00a0The world is then subdivided into various regions or \"biomes\" that contain different and often biome specific materials and critters. While initial areas have a breathable atmosphere, subsequent areas are in a\u00a0vacuum\u00a0or lack oxygen, requiring proper preparation by the duplicants before they explore these areas. The world also contains several hazards such as diseases and extreme temperatures. The game simulates the\u00a0diffusion\u00a0of gases and equalization of atmospheres when a new natural chamber is opened, which can cause oxygen levels to drop in existing chambers, as well as the draining of liquids by gravity.\n\nTo help establish the colony, the player directs the duplicants to perform certain tasks, such as mining for resources, growing food, crafting equipment, researching new technologies, and maintaining their own health through nourishment, rest, and hygiene.\u00a0The player does not control the duplicants directly, and instead provides prioritized instructions, from which the duplicants will then follow to the best of their abilities. For example, the player can order a conduit of wire to be built; which will have the duplicants collect the materials to make the wire, clear away any materials around the conduit's path, and then construct the wire. If the duplicants cannot access a source of copper for the wire, the task will remain uncompleted as the duplicants go to complete other tasks they can do. Duplicants have stats that determine how effective they are at certain tasks, and will prioritize tasks that they are best at. These duplicants' skills can be improved over time and practice.\n Question: What is Oxygen Not Included?", "output": "Oxygen Not Included\u00a0is a\u00a0space-colony simulation\u00a0survival game produced and published by Klei Entertainment, the same studio that developed Don\u2019t Starve. At the start of a new game, three colonists (referred to as duplicants) find themselves in an asteroid with isolated pockets of breathable atmosphere, with no memory of how they got there. The player is tasked with managing and taking care of these duplicants as they try to survive and create a sustainable makeshift\u00a0space colony. The player must monitor the duplicants' hunger, waste, and oxygen levels to keep them alive. To help establish the colony, the player directs the duplicants to perform certain tasks, such as mining for resources, growing food, crafting equipment, researching new technologies, and maintaining their own health through nourishment, rest, and hygiene."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A computer worm is a standalone malware computer program that replicates itself in order to spread to other computers. It often uses a computer network to spread itself, relying on security failures on the target computer to access it. It will use this machine as a host to scan and infect other computers. When these new worm-invaded computers are controlled, the worm will continue to scan and infect other computers using these computers as hosts, and this behaviour will continue. Computer worms use recursive methods to copy themselves without host programs and distribute themselves based on exploiting the advantages of exponential growth, thus controlling and infecting more and more computers in a short time. Worms almost always cause at least some harm to the network, even if only by consuming bandwidth, whereas viruses almost always corrupt or modify files on a targeted computer.\n\nMany worms are designed only to spread, and do not attempt to change the systems they pass through. However, as the Morris worm and Mydoom showed, even these \"payload-free\" worms can cause major disruption by increasing network traffic and other unintended effects.\n\nHistory\n\nThe actual term \"worm\" was first used in John Brunner's 1975 novel, The Shockwave Rider. In the novel, Nichlas Haflinger designs and sets off a data-gathering worm in an act of revenge against the powerful men who run a national electronic information web that induces mass conformity. \"You have the biggest-ever worm loose in the net, and it automatically sabotages any attempt to monitor it. There's never been a worm with that tough a head or that long a tail!\"\n\nThe second ever computer worm was devised to be an anti-virus software. Named Reaper, it was created by Ray Tomlinson to replicate itself across the ARPANET and delete the experimental Creeper program (the first computer worm, 1971).\n\nOn November 2, 1988, Robert Tappan Morris, a Cornell University computer science graduate student, unleashed what became known as the Morris worm, disrupting many computers then on the Internet, guessed at the time to be one tenth of all those connected. During the Morris appeal process, the U.S. Court of Appeals estimated the cost of removing the worm from each installation at between $200 and $53,000; this work prompted the formation of the CERT Coordination Center and Phage mailing list. Morris himself became the first person tried and convicted under the 1986 Computer Fraud and Abuse Act.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Computer Worm history, tell me the name of the earliest computer worm that caused damages to many computers on the Internet and the date when it was unleashed by his creator.", "output": "The first computer worm publicly known to cause real disruptions and malfunctioning to computers connected to the Internet is known to be the Morris worm, created in 1988 by Robert Morris, a computer science student at Cornell University."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Slater is also a fundraiser and spokesperson for suicide prevention awareness. He has surfed in celebrity events for Surfers Against Suicide, telling sports website 'Athletes Talk': \"I've lost a couple of friends myself to suicide and it's just a horrible thing that can be prevented. People get in this dark place and they don't know what to do so it's always nice to see a non-profit that isn't turning into anything else other than just trying to help people.\"\n\nSlater is passionate about preserving oceans globally and protecting temperate reefs in California through his relationship with Reef Check. Slater is on the Board of Advisors (the Ocean Advocacy Advisory Board) of ocean conservation organization Sea Shepherd Conservation Society.\n Question: Based on the paragraph below, please list out the 2 major causes supported by Kelly Slater.", "output": "Kelly Slater's main activism has been directed towards suicide prevention and ocean conservation."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Malibamat'so River is a river in northern Lesotho. Its origin is near to the South African border, where it drains the eastern slopes of the Maloti Range. It flows southwards past the village of Lejone, and eventually joins the Senqu River 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) northeast of Mohlanapeng.\n\nThe Malibamat'so forms the northern arm of the Katse Dam reservoir, a part of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project. Katse is Africa's highest elevation dam at 1,993 metres (6,539 ft) above sea level. Here the river is joined by the Bokong/Bokung River. Downstream the Malibamat'so's left bank tributaries are the Matsoku and Semenanyane Rivers, before it forms a right bank tributary of the Senqu/Orange River.\n Question: Have you heard of Malibamat'so River and where does it flow?", "output": "Yes, the Malibamat'so River is a river in northern Lesotho. Its origin is near the South African border, where it drains the eastern slopes of the Maloti Range."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The McIntosh County Seat War was a dispute in Oklahoma over the location of the McIntosh County seat that took place between 1907 and 1909. Following a pair of elections that resulted in the town of Checotah being designated as the new county seat, the people of Eufaula refused to hand over the county records. As a result, a group of heavily armed men from Chectotah attempted to seize the records, but were forced to surrender during the gunbattle that ensued. One year later, after another close election, Eufaula became the permanent county seat.\n Question: What was the The McIntosh County Seat War", "output": "The McIntosh County Seat War was a dispute in Oklahoma over the location of the McIntosh County seat that took place between 1907 and 1909. Following a pair of elections that resulted in the town of Checotah being designated as the new county seat, the people of Eufaula refused to hand over the county records. \n\nAs a result, a group of heavily armed men from Chectotah attempted to seize the records, but were forced to surrender during the gunbattle that ensued. One year later, after another close election, Eufaula became the permanent county seat."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Margot Elise Robbie (/\u02c8m\u0251\u02d0r\u0261o\u028a \u02c8r\u0252bi/; born 2 July 1990) is an Australian actress and producer. Known for her work in both blockbuster and independent films, she has received various awards and nominations, including nominations for two Academy Awards, four Golden Globe Awards, and five British Academy Film Awards. Time magazine named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2017 and she was ranked as one of the world's highest-paid actresses by Forbes in 2019.\n Question: Given a reference text about Margot Robbie, tell me when they were born and what they are famous for.", "output": "Margot Robbie was born on July 2nd, 1990. She is famous for being an Australian actress and one of Time Magazine's 100 most influential people in the world in 2017."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sanderson rose to prominence in late 2007 when Harriet McDougal, the wife and editor of author Robert Jordan, chose Sanderson to complete the final books in Jordan's epic fantasy series The Wheel of Time after Jordan's death. McDougal asked Sanderson to finish the series after being deeply impressed by his first Mistborn novel, The Final Empire. Tor Books made the announcement on December 7, 2007. After reviewing what was necessary to complete the series, Sanderson and Tor announced on March 30, 2009, that a final three books would be published instead of just one.\n\nThe first of these, The Gathering Storm, was published on October 27, 2009, and reached the number-one spot on the New York Times bestseller list for hardcover fiction.Towers of Midnight, the second-to-last Wheel of Time book, was published just over a year after The Gathering Storm on November 2, 2010, debuting at number one on the bestseller list. In early 2013, the series was completed with the publication of A Memory of Light.\n Question: Who finished the Wheel of Time series?", "output": "The death of Robert Jordan, the original author of the Wheel of Time series, prompted his wife and editor, Harriet McDougal, to find someone to complete her late husband's work. She chose Brandon Sanderson, who had recently released the popular first novel of the Mistborn series, The Final Empire. Sanderson agreed after reviewing Jordan's notes."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Published in 1954, Lord of the Flies was Golding's first novel. The concept arose after Golding read what he deemed to be an unrealistic portrayal of stranded children in the youth novel The Coral Island: a Tale of the Pacific Ocean (1857) by R. M. Ballantyne, which includes themes of the civilising effect of Christianity and the importance of hierarchy and leadership. Golding asked his wife, Ann, if it would \"be a good idea if I wrote a book about children on an island, children who behave in the way children really would behave?\" As a result, the novel contains various references to The Coral Island, such as the rescuing naval officer's description of the boys' initial attempts at civilised cooperation as a \"olly good show. Like the Coral Island.\" Golding's three central characters (Ralph, Piggy, and Jack) have also been interpreted as caricatures of Ballantyne's Coral Island protagonists.\n Question: Given this reference text, in which year was the youth novel by R.M. Ballantyne - which inspired Golding's first novel - written?", "output": "1857"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In her teens in the 1880s, she taught school for a time in Sac County, Iowa. She studied at the Mount Carroll Seminary (later known as Shimer College), exiting in 1890. Although then as now primarily a liberal arts institution, the school also offered courses in stenography and typewriting. Deneen performed well enough in her studies to be hired as an instructor of these subjects in 1889 and 1890.\n Question: What did Deneen do in her teens?", "output": "In her teens, Deneen taught school in Sac County, Iowa."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The French Revolution (French: R\u00e9volution fran\u00e7aise [\u0281ev\u0254lysj\u0254\u0303 f\u0281\u0251\u0303s\u025b\u02d0z]) was a period of radical political and societal change in France that began with the Estates General of 1789 and ended with the formation of the French Consulate in November 1799.\n Question: When was the french revolution", "output": "The French revolution started in 1789 and ended in November 1799"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sintok is a small town Kubang Pasu District, Kedah, Malaysia. Universiti Utara Malaysia (UUM) is situated here.\n\nSintok is located about 52 kilometres from Alor Setar City and about twelve kilometres from Changlun Town. Sintok is reachable via Kuala Perlis-Changlun-Sintok expressway and via a road from Padang Terap.\n\nHistory\nThe name \"Sintok\" is taken from the name of a type of tree. The town was originally a remote settlement area for tin miners. However, due to its close proximity to the border of Malaysia-Thailand, Sintok was exposed to threats from the banned communist group. Hence, the government had to migrate all the original residents to a safer area, and declared the town are as a 'black area'. History recorded many killings of members of the security forces in the area.\n\nBy mid 1980s, the federal and state government agreed on building a university in Sintok. The university was named Universiti Utara Malaysia (UUM), literally translated as \"Northern University of Malaysia\", and construction started in the late 1980s to replace the temporary campus in Bandar Baru Darul Aman, Jitra.\n\nAs a memorial to the sacrifice by the security forces, a memorial structure was built in that UUM campus. A list of names of the members of the security forces that was killed by the communists was placed at this memorial structure.\n\nThe establishment of UUM campus has expedited the growth of new settlements like Bandar Baru Sintok and Bukit Kachi which is located opposite of Sungai Badak Forest Reserve.\n Question: Given a reference text about Sintok, tell me where it is located.", "output": "Sintok is located 12km from Changlu Town and 52km from Alor Setar City in Malaysia."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ecsenius tessera is a species of combtooth blenny in the genus Ecsenius. It is found in coral reefs in the western Pacific ocean, around Vanuatu. It can reach a maximum length of 4.5 centimetres. Blennies in this species feed primarily off of plants, including benthic algae and weeds.\n Question: Where is Ecsenius tessera commonly found?", "output": "Ecsenius tessera is commonly found in coral reefs in the western Pacific ocean, close to Vanuatu."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: According to the World Register of Marine Species, there are only two genera in this family. Previously there were about 26, but most of these have been reallocated as sub-genera of the remaining two genera, Mycale and Phlyctaenopora:\n Question: If there are only two genera remaining, what happened to the other 24?", "output": "Most of the other 24 were reallocated as sub-genera of the remaining two genera."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As of 2021, the power and capacity of the largest individual battery storage power plants is an order of magnitude less than that of the largest pumped storage power plants, the most common form of grid energy storage. For example, the Bath County Pumped Storage Station, the second largest in the world, can store 24GWh of electricity and dispatch 3GW while the first phase of Vistra Energy's Moss Landing Energy Storage Facility can store 1.2GWh and dispatch 300MW. Grid batteries do not however have to be large, and smaller ones can be deployed widely across a grid for greater redundancy.\n\nAs of 2019, battery power storage is cheaper than open cycle gas turbine power for use up to two hours, and there was around 365 GWh of battery storage deployed worldwide, growing extremely rapidly. Levelized cost of electricity from battery storage has fallen rapidly, halving in two years to US$150 per MWh as of 2020.\n Question: Given these paragraphs about battery storage power stations, how much was able to store and dispatch the first phase of Vistra Energy's Moss Landing Energy Storage Facility?", "output": "The first phase of Vistra Energy's Moss Landing Energy Storage Facility can store 1.2GWh and dispatch 300MW."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: ChatGPT was launched as a prototype on November 30, 2022. It garnered attention for its detailed responses and articulate answers across many domains of knowledge. Its uneven factual accuracy, however, has been identified as a significant drawback. Following the release of ChatGPT, OpenAI's valuation was estimated at US$29 billion in 2023.\n\nThe original release of ChatGPT was based on GPT-3.5. A version based on GPT-4, the newest OpenAI model, was released on March 14, 2023, and is available for paid subscribers on a limited basis.\n Question: Given the introduction of ChatGPT, tell me how many releases there are since the fist launch and when they were launched.", "output": "There are two ChatGPT versions so far. The first release was on Nov 23rd, 2022, and the second launch was released on Mar 14th, 2023."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mount Everest (Nepali: \u0938\u0917\u0930\u092e\u093e\u0925\u093e, romanized: Sagarm\u0101th\u0101; Tibetan: Chomolungma \u0f47\u0f7c\u0f0b\u0f58\u0f7c\u0f0b\u0f42\u0fb3\u0f44\u0f0b\u0f58; Chinese: \u73e0\u7a46\u6717\u739b\u5cf0; pinyin: Zh\u016bm\u00f9l\u01cengm\u01ce F\u0113ng) is Earth's highest mountain above sea level, located in the Mahalangur Himal sub-range of the Himalayas. The China\u2013Nepal border runs across its summit point. Its elevation (snow height) of 8,848.86 m (29,031 ft 8+1\u20442 in) was most recently established in 2020 by the Chinese and Nepali authorities.\n Question: Where is Mount Everest?", "output": "Mount Everest is located in the Himalayan mountain range and runs across the China-Nepal border."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: An airfield traffic pattern is a standard path followed by aircraft when taking off or landing while maintaining visual contact with the airfield.\n\nAt an airport, the pattern (or circuit) is a standard path for coordinating air traffic. It differs from \"straight-in approaches\" and \"direct climb-outs\" in that aircraft using a traffic pattern remain close to the airport. Patterns are usually employed at small general aviation (GA) airfields and military airbases. Many large controlled airports avoid the system unless there is GA activity as well as commercial flights. However, some kind of a pattern may be used at airports in some cases such as when an aircraft is required to go around, but this kind of pattern at controlled airports may be very different in form, shape, and purpose to the standard traffic pattern as used at GA airports.\n\nThe use of a pattern at airfields is for aviation safety. By using a consistent flight pattern, pilots will know from where to expect other air traffic and be able to see and avoid it. Pilots flying under visual flight rules (VFR) may not be separated by air traffic control, so this consistent predictable pattern is a vital way to keep things orderly. At tower-controlled airports, air traffic control (ATC) may provide traffic advisories for VFR flights on a work-load permitting basis.\n Question: How important is pilot communication with a non-towered controlled airport?", "output": "Piloting into a non-towered airport in my experience can be more challenging than towered airports.  What makes it challenging is that you are not speaking to anyone in charge of the airspace.  You are broadcasting to an open communications channel and hope all the other pilots \u201cplay\u201d by the rules.  The first best practice is to have a basic understanding of the airport, how many runways, what direction do they run, direction of the traffic pattern and traffic pattern altitude etc.?   Practice consistency as this will aid in your decision making process.  As you approach the airport you must also check the weather via AWOS or ASOS to determine the wind direction, speed and altimeter setting.  The next step is to tune into airport UNICOM to listen to other traffic in the area, note the departures and arrivals and also note other planes in the traffic pattern.  The next step is to identify yourself via the airport UNICOM channel, provide your distance to the airport and your direction from the airport.   Your approach direction will most likely determine how and where you will join the traffic pattern.  Most importantly, keep listening to the airport UNICOM and actively look for any other planes either in the traffic pattern or in the vicinity.  There are a minimum of 4 traffic pattern legs - crosswind, downwind, base and final.  Your job as a pilot is to communicate as you enter each pattern leg. It is also beneficial to communicate your intentions whether you are executing a full stop landing or a touch-n-go.  If you are doing a full-stop landing be sure to communicate when you are clear of the given runway."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) is a private land-grant research university in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Established in 1861, MIT has played a significant role in the development of many areas of modern technology and science.\n Question: When was MIT founded?", "output": "1861"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Robyn Rihanna Fenty NH (/ri\u02c8\u00e6n\u0259/ (listen) ree-AN-\u0259;[n 1] born February 20, 1988) is a Barbadian singer, actress, and businesswoman. Born in Saint Michael and raised in Bridgetown, Barbados, Rihanna auditioned for American record producer Evan Rogers who invited her to the United States to record demo tapes. After signing with Def Jam in 2005, she soon gained recognition with the release of her first two studio albums, Music of the Sun (2005) and A Girl Like Me (2006), both of which were influenced by Caribbean music and peaked within the top ten of the US Billboard 200 chart.\n Question: Given this paragraph about a singer, what was Rihanna's first album?", "output": "Music of the Sun (2005)"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Stevan L. Davies (born 1948) is an author and Emeritus Professor of Religious Studies at Misericordia University in Dallas, Pennsylvania. His most notable work has been in the analysis of Christian apocrypha, especially the Gospel of Thomas. He is married to Sally Watkins Davies and has two children, Michael L. Davies and Meredith G. Russell.[citation needed]\n\nDavies holds a bachelor's degree from Duke University and a doctorate in philosophy from Temple University.\n\nHe was Professor of Religious Studies at Misericordia University from 1979 to 2015.\n Question: Given a reference text about Stevan L. Davies, tell me where he went to college.", "output": "Stevan L. Davies went to college at Duke University for his bachelor's degree and Temple University for his doctorate in philosophy."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Cyber PHA methodology reconciles the process safety and cybersecurity approaches and allows IT, Operations and Engineering to collaborate in way that is already familiar to facility operations management and personnel. Modeled on the process safety PHA/HAZOP methodology, a cyber PHA enables cyber risks to be identified and analyzed in the same manner as any other process risk, and, because it can be conducted as a separate follow-on activity to a traditional HAZOP it can be used in both existing brownfield sites and newly constructed greenfield sites without unduly meddling with well established process safety processes.\n Question: what traditional process does Cyber PHA follow given this information?", "output": "HAZOP"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Thomas Attewell (7 November 1869 \u2013 6 July 1937) was an English first-class cricketer. Attewell was a right-handed batsman who bowled right-arm medium pace. He was born at Keyworth, Nottinghamshire.\n\nHis brother William played first-class cricket for Nottinghamshire and the Marylebone Cricket Club, as well as Test cricket for England. His cousin Walter Attewell played first-class cricket for Nottinghamshire.\n Question: Did Thomas Attewell bat with a right or left hand?", "output": "right hand"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Endless Nights in Aurora (Chinese: \u6975\u5149\u4e4b\u611b) is a 2014 Taiwanese romantic drama film directed by Lee Szu-yuan. It stars Rainie Yang and Chris Wang. It was released on December 19, 2014.\n\nRevolving around the romantic relationship of two generations, Alisha and her mother Xiao-feng, two parallel love stories are re-enacted across two and a half decades. With equally heated passion, the star-crossed lovers in different generations are faithfully attached to their experiences in love through promises, anticipation, losses, and forgiveness.\n Question: In what year did Endless Nights come out?", "output": "2014"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kilo is a station on the VR commuter rail network on the Rantarata line located in Kilo, a district of the city of Espoo in Finland. It is situated between Lepp\u00e4vaara railway station and Kera railway station, approximately 13 kilometres (8.1 mi) northwest/west of Helsinki Central railway station.\n Question: Where is the Kilo railway station", "output": "Kilo is a station on the VR commuter rail network on the Rantarata line located in Kilo, a district of the city of Espoo in Finland. It is situated between Leppavaara railway station and Kera railway station, approximately 13 kilometres (8.1 mi) northwest/west of Helsinki Central railway station."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Aronia is a genus of deciduous shrubs, the chokeberries, in the family Rosaceae native to eastern North America and most commonly found in wet woods and swamps.The genus Aronia is considered to have 3 species.The most common and widely used is Aronia melanocarpa (black chokeberry) which emerged from Eastern North America. The lesser known Aronia arbutifolia (red chokeberry) and the hybrid form of the abovementioned species called Aronia prunifolia (purple chokeberry) were first cultivated in Central and Eastern North America. In the eighteenth century, the first shrubs of the best-known species Aronia melanocarpa reached Europe where they were first cultivated in Scandinavia and Russia.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Aronia, what is another name for the plant and where were they first cultivated?", "output": "Aronia is also known as chokeberries and they were first cultivated in Scandinavia and Russia."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Violet Constance Jessop (2 October 1887 \u2013 5 May 1971), often referred to as the \"Queen of sinking ships\" or \"Miss Unsinkable,\" was an Argentine woman of Irish heritage who worked as an ocean liner stewardess, memoirist, and nurse in the early 20th century. Jessop is most well known for having survived the sinking of both the RMS Titanic in 1912 and her sister ship the HMHS Britannic in 1916, as well as having been onboard the eldest of the three sister ships, the RMS Olympic, when it collided with the British warship HMS Hawke in 1911.\n Question: How many sinking ships did Violet Jessop survive? Be precise.", "output": "2."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Friedrich August von Hayek CH FBA (/\u02c8ha\u026a\u0259k/ HY-\u0259k, German: [\u02c8f\u0281i\u02d0d\u0281\u026a\u00e7 \u02c8\u0294a\u028a\u0261\u028ast f\u0254n \u02c8ha\u026a\u025bk] (listen); 8 May 1899 \u2013 23 March 1992), often referred to by his initials F. A. Hayek, was an Austrian-British intellectual who made contributions to economics, political science, psychology, intellectual history, philosophy and other fields. Hayek shared the 1974 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences with Gunnar Myrdal for work on money and economic fluctuations, and the interdependence of economic, social and institutional phenomena. His account of how prices communicate information is widely regarded as an important contribution to economics that led to him receiving the prize\n Question: Who won the 1974 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences?", "output": "Friedrich August von Hayek and Gunnar Myrdal shared the 1974 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Sanremo Music Festival (Italian: Festival di Sanremo [\u02c8f\u025bstival di san\u02c8r\u025b\u02d0mo, festi\u02c8val -]), officially the Italian Song Festival (Italian: Festival della canzone italiana), is the most popular Italian song contest and awards ceremony, held annually in the city of Sanremo, Liguria\n Question: Which is the most popular Italian Song Festival", "output": "The Sanremo Music Festival"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Crystal Palace Football Club, commonly referred to as Palace, is a professional football club based in Selhurst in the Borough of Croydon, South London, England, which competes in the Premier League, the highest level of English football. The club's kit colours were claret and blue until 1973, when they changed to the red and blue vertical stripes worn today.\n Question: What professional football team play in red and blue and are based in south london?", "output": "Crystal Palace FC"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: John Clarke Young (August 12, 1803 \u2013 June 23, 1857) was an American educator and pastor who was the fourth president of Centre College in Danville, Kentucky. A graduate of Dickinson College and Princeton Theological Seminary, he entered the ministry in Lexington, Kentucky, in 1828. He accepted the presidency of Centre College in 1830, holding the position until his death in 1857, making him the longest-serving president in the college's history. He is regarded as one of the college's best presidents, as he increased the endowment of the college more than five-fold during his term, and increased the graduating class size from two students in his first year to forty-seven in his final year.\n Question: Given this paragraph about John C. Young, where did he go to college?", "output": "Dickinson College and Princeton Theological Seminary"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Chadwick is a village in Carroll County, Illinois, United States. The population was 481 at the 2020 census, down from 551 at the 2010 census.\n\nGeography\nChadwick is located at 42\u00b00\u203251\u2033N 89\u00b053\u203221\u2033W (42.014081, -89.889078).\n\nAccording to the 2021 census gazetteer files, Chadwick has a total area of 0.31 square miles (0.80 km2), all land.\n\nDemographics\nAs of the 2020 census there were 481 people, 256 households, and 163 families residing in the village. The population density was 1,546.62 inhabitants per square mile (597.15/km2). There were 246 housing units at an average density of 791.00 per square mile (305.41/km2). The racial makeup of the village was 96.67% White, 0.42% African American, 0.62% Asian, and 2.29% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 2.49% of the population.\n\nThere were 256 households, out of which 30.86% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 51.95% were married couples living together, 5.08% had a female householder with no husband present, and 36.33% were non-families. 31.25% of all households were made up of individuals, and 10.55% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.61 and the average family size was 2.07.\n\nThe village's age distribution consisted of 15.5% under the age of 18, 6.0% from 18 to 24, 19.2% from 25 to 44, 35.5% from 45 to 64, and 23.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 50.4 years. For every 100 females, there were 128.0 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 125.8 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the village was $50,000, and the median income for a family was $57,039. Males had a median income of $36,908 versus $25,652 for females. The per capita income for the village was $27,324. About 3.7% of families and 4.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 11.0% of those under age 18 and 3.2% of those age 65 or over.\n Question: Given a reference text about Chadwick, Illinois, tell me median family income and the percent of families below the poverty line.", "output": "The median family income in Chadwick, Illinois is $57,039 and about 3.7% of families live below the poverty line."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The National Gallery of Ireland (Irish: Gaileara\u00ed N\u00e1isi\u00fanta na h\u00c9ireann) houses the national collection of Irish and European art. It is located in the centre of Dublin with one entrance on Merrion Square, beside Leinster House, and another on Clare Street. It was founded in 1854 and opened its doors ten years later. The gallery has an extensive, representative collection of Irish paintings and is also notable for its Italian Baroque and Dutch masters painting. The current director is Caroline Campbell.\n Question: Based on the provided text, In what year did the National Gallery of Ireland open its doors to the public and what kind of art is it known for?", "output": "The National Gallery of Ireland opened in 1864 and is known for its Irish, Italian Baroque, and Dutch masters paintings"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: After he received a license to preach from the Presbytery of New York on March 7, 1827, Young's career in the ministry began following his graduation from Princeton. In 1828, he moved to Lexington, Kentucky, where he was appointed to the pastorate of McChord Presbyterian Church (now Second Presbyterian Church), founded in 1815 by James McChord, who was later elected as the first president of Centre College in Danville, Kentucky.\n\nCentre's presidency became vacant in October 1830 when Gideon Blackburn resigned the office. At the recommendation of Archibald Alexander, principal of Princeton Theological Seminary, the college's trustees offered Young the position in a unanimous vote. He accepted and was inaugurated as the fourth president of Centre College on November 18, 1830, at the age of 27.\n Question: Based on this paragraph about the early career of John C. Young (pastor), after the resignation of which whom was Young offered the presidency of Centre College in Danville, Kentucky?", "output": "Gideon Blackburn"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 1932 Australian Grand Prix was a motor race held at the Phillip Island circuit in Victoria, Australia on 14 March 1932. It was the fifth Australian Grand Prix and the fifth to be held at Phillip Island.\n\nThe race was organized by the Light Car Club of Australia, formerly known as the Victorian Light Car Club, and was limited to cars having an engine with a piston displacement of 2000cc or less. It was the first Australian Grand Prix to be decided on a straight handicap basis, with the winner being the first car to complete the 31 laps. The two \"scratch\" competitors had to concede starts ranging up to 29 minutes, equating to an advantage of four laps. The previous practice of cars contesting four classes was discontinued. Weather conditions were reported to be \"ideal\".\n\nThe race, in which there were 18 starters, was won by Bill Thompson driving a Bugatti. Thompson was also awarded the Herald Trophy for recording the fastest time of the race.\n Question: What kind of grand prix is the 1932 Australian Grand Prix", "output": "The 1932 Australian Grand Prix was a motor race held at the Phillip Island circuit in Victoria, Australia on 14 March 1932. It was the fifth Australian Grand Prix and the fifth to be held at Phillip Island.\n\nThe race was organized by the Light Car Club of Australia, formerly known as the Victorian Light Car Club, and was limited to cars having an engine with a piston displacement of 2000cc or less. It was the first Australian Grand Prix to be decided on a straight handicap basis, with the winner being the first car to complete the 31 laps. The two \"scratch\" competitors had to concede starts ranging up to 29 minutes, equating to an advantage of four laps. The previous practice of cars contesting four classes was discontinued. Weather conditions were reported to be \"ideal\".\n\nThe race, in which there were 18 starters, was won by Bill Thompson driving a Bugatti. Thompson was also awarded the Herald Trophy for recording the fastest time of the race."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Until the last ice age, the basin which is now filled by the San Francisco Bay was a large linear valley with small hills, similar to most of the valleys of the Coast Ranges. As the great ice sheets began to melt, around 11,000 years ago, the sea level started to rise. By 5000 BC the sea level rose 300 feet (90 m), filling the valley with water from the Pacific. The valley became a bay, and the small hills became islands.\n Question: How was the San Francisco bay created?", "output": "Around 11,000 years ago the earth began to wam and melt the great ice sheets, raising sea levels and filling the valley that the San Francisco Bay now lives in."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: BNP Paribas is a French international banking group, founded in 2000 from the merger between Banque Nationale de Paris (BNP, \"National Bank of Paris\") and Paribas, formerly known as the Banque de Paris et des Pays-Bas. The full name of the group's parent entity is BNP Paribas S.A.\n\nWith 190,000 employees as of February 2021, the bank is organized into three major business areas: Commercial, Personal Banking & Services (CPBS), Investment & Protection Services (IPS) and Corporate & Institutional Banking (CIB). The group is listed on the first market of Euronext Paris and a component of the Euro Stoxx 50 stock market index, while it also included in the French CAC 40 index.\n\nBNP Paribas is the second largest banking group in Europe, after HSBC, and ninth largest banking group in the world (by assets, December 2021). It became one of the five largest banks in the world following the 2008 financial crisis. Despite some legal difficulties in 2014, including being fined the largest ever sum as reparation for violating U.S. sanctions, it remains one of the ten largest banks worldwide. It is considered a systemically important bank by the Financial Stability Board.\n Question: Could you describe who is BNP Paribas (BNPP)?", "output": "BNP Paribas alias BNPP is a French Banking group. In 2022 they made 50.4 billion euros of revenue and 10.2 billion euros of net income."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Animals are multicellular, eukaryotic organisms in the biological kingdom Animalia. With few exceptions, animals consume organic material, breathe oxygen, are able to move, can reproduce sexually, and grow from a hollow sphere of cells, the blastula, during embryonic development. As of 2022, 2.16 million living animal species have been described\u2014of which around 1.05 million are insects, over 36,000 are fishes, around 11,700 are reptiles, over 11,100 are birds, and 6,596 mammals\u2014but it has been estimated there are around 7.77 million animal species in total. Animals range in length from 8.5 micrometres (0.00033 in) to 33.6 metres (110 ft). They have complex interactions with each other and their environments, forming intricate food webs. The scientific study of animals is known as zoology.\n Question: Of the living animal species which have been described, which group has the most?", "output": "There are 1.05 million (1,050,000) insect species, which is the largest group in the animal kingdom."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hispania (Latin: Hisp\u0101nia [h\u026as\u02c8pa\u02d0nia], Spanish: [is\u02c8panja]; nearly identically pronounced in Spanish, Portuguese, Catalan, and Italian) was the Roman name for the Iberian Peninsula and its provinces. Under the Roman Republic, Hispania was divided into two provinces: Hispania Citerior and Hispania Ulterior. During the Principate, Hispania Ulterior was divided into two new provinces, Baetica and Lusitania, while Hispania Citerior was renamed Hispania Tarraconensis. Subsequently, the western part of Tarraconensis was split off, first as Hispania Nova, later renamed \"Callaecia\" (or Gallaecia, whence modern Galicia). From Diocletian's Tetrarchy (AD 293) onwards, the south of the remainder of Tarraconensis was again split off as Carthaginensis, and all of the mainland Hispanic provinces, along with the Balearic Islands and the North African province of Mauretania Tingitana, were later grouped into a civil diocese headed by a vicarius. The name Hispania was also used in the period of Visigothic rule.\n\nThe modern place names Spain and Hispaniola are both derived from Hispania.\n Question: What is Hispania", "output": "Hispania (Latin: Hisp\u0101nia [h\u026as\u02c8pa\u02d0nia], Spanish: [is\u02c8panja]; nearly identically pronounced in Spanish, Portuguese, Catalan, and Italian) was the Roman name for the Iberian Peninsula and its provinces. Under the Roman Republic, Hispania was divided into two provinces: Hispania Citerior and Hispania Ulterior. During the Principate, Hispania Ulterior was divided into two new provinces, Baetica and Lusitania, while Hispania Citerior was renamed Hispania Tarraconensis. \n\nSubsequently, the western part of Tarraconensis was split off, first as Hispania Nova, later renamed \"Callaecia\" (or Gallaecia, whence modern Galicia). From Diocletian's Tetrarchy (AD 293) onwards, the south of the remainder of Tarraconensis was again split off as Carthaginensis, and all of the mainland Hispanic provinces, along with the Balearic Islands and the North African province of Mauretania Tingitana, were later grouped into a civil diocese headed by a vicarius. The name Hispania was also used in the period of Visigothic rule.\n\nThe modern place names Spain and Hispaniola are both derived from Hispania."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Big Trouble in Little China (also known as John Carpenter's Big Trouble in Little China) is a 1986 American fantasy action-comedy film directed by John Carpenter, and starring Kurt Russell, Kim Cattrall, Dennis Dun and James Hong. The film tells the story of truck driver Jack Burton (Russell), who helps his friend Wang Chi (Dun) rescue Wang's green-eyed fianc\u00e9e from bandits in San Francisco's Chinatown. They go into the mysterious underworld beneath Chinatown, where they face an ancient sorcerer named David Lo Pan (Hong), who requires a woman with green eyes to marry him in order to be released from a centuries-old curse.\n Question: What year was the movie Big Trouble in Little China released?", "output": "1986"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Spoetzl Brewery (originally Shiner Brewing Association) is a brewery located in Shiner, Texas, United States. It produces a diverse line of Shiner beers, including their flagship Shiner Bock, a dark lager that is now distributed throughout the US. The brewery is owned by the Gambrinus Company, a family-owned company based in San Antonio, which also owns Trumer Brewery in Berkeley, California.\n Question: Who brews Shiner Bock beer?", "output": "Spoetzl Brewery (originally Shiner Brewing Association) is a brewery located in Shiner, Texas, United States. It produces a diverse line of Shiner beers, including their flagship Shiner Bock, a dark lager that is distributed throughout the US."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: David Robert Jones (8 January 1947 \u2013 10 January 2016), known professionally as David Bowie (/\u02c8bo\u028ai/ BOH-ee), was an English singer-songwriter and actor. A leading figure in the music industry, he is regarded as one of the most influential musicians of the 20th century. Bowie was acclaimed by critics and musicians, particularly for his innovative work during the 1970s. His career was marked by reinvention and visual presentation, and his music and stagecraft had a significant impact on popular music.\n Question: Given this paragraph about David Bowie, in which decade might you describe his music as having peaked?", "output": "1970s"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The most expensive watch ever sold at auction worldwide is the Patek Philippe Grandmaster Chime Ref. 6300A-010, which fetched 31.19 million US dollars (31,000,000 CHF) in Geneva on 9 November 2019 (by Christie's).\n Question: What was the most expensive watch ever sold at auction", "output": "A Patek Philippe Grandmaster was sold for a reported 31.19 million USD"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wardell Stephen Curry II (/\u02c8st\u025bf\u0259n/ STEF-\u0259n; born March 14, 1988) is an American professional basketball player for the Golden State Warriors of the National Basketball Association (NBA). Widely regarded as one of the greatest basketball players of all time, and as the greatest shooter in NBA history, Curry is credited with revolutionizing the sport by inspiring teams and players to take more three-point shots. A nine-time NBA All-Star and eight-time All-NBA selection, including four times on the first team, he has been named the NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP) twice, won four NBA championships, and received an NBA Finals MVP Award and an NBA All-Star Game MVP Award.\n Question: What is the first name of Stephen Curry?", "output": "Wardell is the first name of Stephen Curry, who is an American professional basketball player for the Golden State Warriors. It is knowns as one of the greatest basketball players of all time."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sogndal is a municipality in Vestland county, Norway. It is located on the northern shore of the Sognefjorden in the traditional district of Sogn. The village of Hermansverk is the administrative center of Sogndal municipality. Other villages include Kaupanger, Kj\u00f8rnes, Fimreite, Nornes, and Fj\u00e6rland. Sogndal Airport, Hauk\u00e5sen is located 10 kilometres (6.2 mi) southwest of Kaupanger.\n Question: What is Sogndal?", "output": "Sogndal is a small city in southwestern Norway with a population of about 12,000"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Campanula cervicaria, also known as the bristly bellflower, is a species of flowering plant in the bellflower family, Campanulaceae. Native to Scandinavia and central Europe, C. cervicaria has also become naturalised in parts of the U.S. state of Minnesota. Its natural habitat is woodland edges, hillside meadows, dry meadows and banks, and it also flourishes where soil has been disturbed, for example after slash-and-burn or forest clearance. The plant has a hairy stem, with light blue flowers about 1 to 2 centimetres (0.4 to 0.8 in) long and grouped together. This C. cervicaria flower was photographed in Keila, Estonia.\n Question: Where can I find a bristly bellflower in the wild?", "output": "The bristly bellflower (Campanula cervicaria) is native to Scandinavia and Central Europe. You can find it in hillside meadows and woodland edges. It flourishes in places where soil has been upturned."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: From Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia\nPresident of the\nUnited States of America\nSeal of the President of the United States.svg\nSeal of the President of the United States\nFlag of the President of the United States.svg\nFlag of the President of the United States\nJoe Biden presidential portrait.jpg\nIncumbent\nJoe Biden\nsince January 20, 2021\nExecutive branch of the U.S. government\nExecutive Office of the President\nStyle\t\nMr. President\n(informal)\nThe Honorable\n(formal)\nHis Excellency\n(diplomatic)\nType\t\nHead of state\nHead of government\nAbbreviation\tPOTUS\nMember of\t\nCabinet\nDomestic Policy Council\nNational Economic Council\nNational Security Council\nResidence\tWhite House\nSeat\tWashington, D.C.\nAppointer\tElectoral College\nTerm length\tFour years, renewable once\nConstituting instrument\tConstitution of the United States\nInaugural holder\tGeorge Washington\nFormation\tMarch 4, 1789\n(234 years ago)\nDeputy\tVice President of the United States\nSalary\t$400,000 (annually)\nWebsite\twhitehouse.gov\nThis article is part of a series on the\nPolitics of the\nUnited States of America\nGreater coat of arms of the United States.svg\nFederal Government\nLegislature\nExecutive\nJudiciary\nElections\nPolitical parties\nFederalism\nOther countriesAtlas\nvte\nThe president of the United States (POTUS) is the head of state and head of government of the United States of America and the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces. The president is also the head of the executive branch of the federal government of the United States and is the chairman of the presidential cabinet.\n\nJoe Biden is the 46th and current president of the United States, in office since January 2021.\n\nEligibility and requirements\nArticle II, Section 1, Clause 5 of the constitution states for a person to serve as president must:\n\nbe a natural-born citizen of the United States. [note 1]\nbe at least thirty-five years old.\nbe a permanent resident in the United States for at least fourteen years.\nElection process and presidential terms\nThe president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term, along with the vice presidential candidate and the incumbent vice president of the United States. The presidential candidate or incumbent president must have at least 270 electoral college votes in order to win the election.\n\nUnder the Twenty-second amendment to the constitution prevents anyone from being elected president more than twice. This amendment was added after Franklin Roosevelt served four terms from 1933 until his death in 1945.\n\nPresident-elect of the United States\nThe president-elect of the United States is the candidate who has won the United States presidential election and is awaiting inauguration to become the president.\n\nPresidential inauguration\n\nThe United States Capitol Building, during the inauguration of Joe Biden, January 2021.\n\nJoe Biden at his presidential inauguration as he takes the presidential office of office.\nThe president and vice president-elect immediately began their four-year team on inauguration day every four years on January 20. The original inauguration date was held on March 4, but was later changed in 1933.\n\nExecutive Office of the President\nThe Executive Office of the President consists of the offices and agencies that support the work of the president at the center of the executive branch of the United States federal government. The office consists of several offices and agencies, such as the White House Office, the staff working directly for and reporting to the president, including White House staff, the National Security Council, and the Office of Management and Budget.\n\nPresidential line of succession\nIf the president dies, reigns, or is impeached, the vice president will succeed the presidential office and duties. fifteen other federal government officials also rank in the succession of the president.\n\nAbraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy were assassinated while in office. William Henry Harrison, Zachary Taylor, Warren G. Harding and Franklin Roosevelt died from illness while president. Calvin Coolidge became president, when Warren G. Harding died while in office.\n\nRichard Nixon is the only U.S. president to have resigned from office.\n\nAndrew Johnson, Bill Clinton, and Donald Trump are the only presidents to have been impeached.\n Question: Who is the 46th president of the United States?", "output": "The president of the United States (POTUS) is the head of state and head of government of the United States of America and the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces. The president is also the head of the executive branch of the federal government of the United States and is the chairman of the presidential cabinet.\n\nJoe Biden is the 46th and current president of the United States, in office since January 2021."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A handheld mobile radio telephone service was envisioned in the early stages of radio engineering. In 1917, Finnish inventor Eric Tigerstedt filed a patent for a \"pocket-size folding telephone with a very thin carbon microphone\". Early predecessors of cellular phones included analog radio communications from ships and trains. The race to create truly portable telephone devices began after World War II, with developments taking place in many countries. The advances in mobile telephony have been traced in successive \"generations\", starting with the early zeroth-generation (0G) services, such as Bell System's Mobile Telephone Service and its successor, the Improved Mobile Telephone Service. These 0G systems were not cellular, supported few simultaneous calls, and were very expensive.\n Question: When was the first idea of mobile phone developed, and was it created or commercialized at that time?", "output": "The early idea of mobile phone goes back to the early stages of radio engineering. It was in 1917 that a Finnish inventor Eric Tigerstedt filed a patent for a \"pocket-size folding telephone with a very thin carbon microphone\". \nNo, the real handheld mobile radio telephones were not created or commercialized at that time. It was after World War II that the race to create truly portable telephone devices began with developments taking place in many countries."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pfizer Inc. (/\u02c8fa\u026az\u0259r/ FY-z\u0259r) is an American multinational pharmaceutical and biotechnology corporation headquartered on 42nd Street in Manhattan, New York City. The company was established in 1849 in New York by two German entrepreneurs, Charles Pfizer (1824\u20131906) and his cousin Charles F. Erhart (1821\u20131891).\n\nPfizer develops and produces medicines and vaccines for immunology, oncology, cardiology, endocrinology, and neurology. The company's largest products by sales are the Pfizer\u2013BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine ($37 billion in 2022 revenues), Nirmatrelvir/ritonavir ($18 billion in 2022 revenues), Apixaban ($6 billion in 2022 revenues), a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine ($6 billion in 2022 revenues), and Palbociclib ($5 billion in 2022 revenues). In 2022, 42% of the company's revenues came from the United States, 8% came from Japan, and 50% came from other countries.\n\nPfizer was a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average stock market index from 2004 to August 2020. The company ranks 43rd on the Fortune 500 and 43rd on the Forbes Global 2000.\n Question: Using the following text, list the top 4 drugs by revenue for Pfizer in 2022?", "output": "1. Pfizer\u2013BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine\n2. Nirmatrelvir/ritonavir \n3. Apixaban \n4. Palbociclib"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Most of the climbing done in modern times is considered free climbing\u2014climbing using one's own physical strength, with equipment used solely as protection and not as support\u2014as opposed to aid climbing, the gear-dependent form of climbing that was dominant in the sport's earlier days. Free climbing is typically divided into several styles that differ from one another depending on the choice of equipment used and the configurations of their belay, rope and anchor systems.\n Question: Why is free climbing called free climbing?", "output": "Free climbing is named so because it is performed solely using one's own physical strength, \"free\" from any support from equipment other than as protection. That is, gear is never used to help a climber actually climb, only to catch them in case they fall."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Grunge is generally characterized by a sludgy electric guitar sound with a thick middle register and rolled-off treble tone and a high level of distortion and fuzz, typically created with small 1970s-style stompbox pedals, with some guitarists chaining several fuzz pedals together and plugging them into a tube amplifier and speaker cabinet.Grunge guitarists use very loud Marshall guitar amplifiers and some used powerful Mesa-Boogie amplifiers, including Kurt Cobain and Dave Grohl (the latter in early, grunge-oriented Foo Fighters songs). Grunge has been called the rock genre with the most \"lugubrious sound\"; the use of heavy distortion and loud amps has been compared to a massive \"buildup of sonic fog\" or even dismissed as \"noise\" by one critic.As with metal and punk, a key part of grunge's sound is very distorted power chords played on the electric guitar.\n Question: Given this paragraph about grunge guitarists, what types of amplifiers would typically be preferred?", "output": "Some grunge guitarists use loud Marshall or Mesa-Boogie amplifiers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Gallipoli campaign was a military campaign in the First World War that took place on the Gallipoli peninsula (Gelibolu in modern Turkey), from 19 February 1915 to 9 January 1916. The Entente powers, Britain, France and the Russian Empire, sought to weaken the Ottoman Empire, one of the Central Powers, by taking control of the Ottoman straits. This would expose the Ottoman capital at Constantinople to bombardment by Allied battleships and cut it off from the Asian part of the empire. With Turkey defeated, the Suez Canal would be safe and a year-round Allied supply route could be opened through the Black Sea to warm-water ports in Russia.\n Question: When did the gallipoli campaign take place?", "output": "The gallipoli campaign took place from the 19th of February 1915 to the 9th of January 1916."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Lockheed Martin F-22 Raptor is an American single-seat, twin-engine, all-weather stealth tactical fighter aircraft developed for the United States Air Force (USAF). As the result of the USAF's Advanced Tactical Fighter (ATF) program, the aircraft was designed as an air superiority fighter, but also has ground attack, electronic warfare, and signals intelligence capabilities. The prime contractor, Lockheed Martin, built most of the F-22's airframe and weapons systems and conducted final assembly, while Boeing provided the wings, aft fuselage, avionics integration, and training systems.  \n  \nThe aircraft first flew in 1997 and was variously designated F-22 and F/A-22 before it formally entered service in December 2005 as the F-22A. Although the USAF had originally planned to buy a total of 750 ATFs, the program was cut to 187 operational aircraft in 2009 due to high costs, a lack of air-to-air missions at the time of production, and the development of the more affordable and versatile F-35.[N 1] The last F-22 was delivered in 2012.  \n  \nWhile it had a protracted development and initial operational difficulties, the F-22 has become a critical component of the USAF's tactical airpower. The fighter's combination of stealth, aerodynamic performance, and mission systems enabled a leap in air combat capabilities and set the benchmark for its generation. The F-22 is expected to serve into the 2030s and eventually be succeeded by the USAF's Next Generation Air Dominance (NGAD) manned fighter component.\n Question: Which company built the F-22 Raptor?", "output": "Lockheed Martin was the main contractor responsible for the development of the F-22, but Boeing also contributed to some subsystems."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Raul Axente Ciupe (born 24 November 1983) is a Romanian former footballer who played as a right back or midfielder for teams such as Sportul Studen\u021besc, Universitatea Cluj or S\u0103n\u0103tatea Cluj, among others.\n\nCareer\nAfter playing for Gaz Metan Media\u0219 in Divizia B, Ciupe made his top-flight debut on 31 July 2004 as a Sportul Studen\u021besc player, in a match against Unirea Alba-Iulia.\n\nPlaying for the Romania national under-21 football team in a match against Macedonia, he was fouled by Goran Popov and suffered a broken tibia. Minutes earlier, another Macedonian player, Hristijan Kirovski, was sent off after also fouling Ciupe. The right-back completely missed the 2005\u20132006 season because of the injury.\n\nCiupe played seven years for Sportul Studen\u021besc before joining FC Bra\u0219ov in November 2011. In June 2012 he was transferred by his hometown team Universitatea Cluj for whom he managed to score his first goals in Liga I, against Astra Ploie\u0219ti and the local rivals from CFR Cluj.\n Question: Given a reference text about Raul Axente Ciupe, tell me what country he is from and what position he played.", "output": "Raul Axente Ciupe is from Romania and played right-back."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Battle of Kuningtou or Battle of Guningtou, also known as the Battle of Kinmen, was a battle fought over Kinmen in the Taiwan Strait during the Chinese Civil War in 1949. The failure of the Communists to take the island left it in the hands of the Kuomintang (Nationalists) and crushed their chances of taking Taiwan to destroy the Nationalists completely in the war.\n Question: Who were fighting each other in this battle and what's the consequence of it", "output": "Chinese Nationalist and Chinese Communists fought this battle during Chinese Civil War in 1949. Chinese Nationalist won the battle which deterred Chinese Communists from taking over Taiwan, the last stronghold of Chinese Nationalist government fled from mainland in 1949 until today."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mongolia (/m\u0252\u014b\u02c8\u0261o\u028ali\u0259/ (listen)) is a landlocked country in East Asia, bordered by Russia to the north and China to the south. It covers an area of 1,564,116 square kilometres (603,909 square miles), with a population of just 3.3 million, making it the world's most sparsely populated sovereign nation. Mongolia is the world's largest landlocked country that does not border a closed sea, and much of its area is covered by grassy steppe, with mountains to the north and west and the Gobi Desert to the south. Ulaanbaatar, the capital and largest city, is home to roughly half of the country's population.\n Question: What is the capital of Mongolia?", "output": "Ulaanbaatar is the capital of Mongolia"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Unix operating system was conceived and implemented in 1969, at AT&T's Bell Labs, in the United States by Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie, Douglas McIlroy, and Joe Ossanna. First released in 1971, Unix was written entirely in assembly language, as was common practice at the time. In 1973, in a key pioneering approach, it was rewritten in the C programming language by Dennis Ritchie (with the exception of some hardware and I/O routines). The availability of a high-level language implementation of Unix made its porting to different computer platforms easier.\n\nDue to an earlier antitrust case forbidding it from entering the computer business, AT&T licensed the operating system's source code as a trade secret to anyone who asked. As a result, Unix grew quickly and became widely adopted by academic institutions and businesses. In 1984, AT&T divested itself of its regional operating companies, and was released from its obligation not to enter the computer business; freed of that obligation, Bell Labs began selling Unix as a proprietary product, where users were not legally allowed to modify it.\n\nOnyx Systems began selling early microcomputer-based Unix workstations in 1980. Later, Sun Microsystems, founded as a spin-off of a student project at Stanford University, also began selling Unix-based desktop workstations in 1982. While Sun workstations didn't utilize commodity PC hardware like Linux was later developed for, it represented the first successful commercial attempt at distributing a primarily single-user microcomputer that ran a Unix operating system.\n\nWith Unix increasingly \"locked in\" as a proprietary product, the GNU Project, started in 1983 by Richard Stallman, had the goal of creating a \"complete Unix-compatible software system\" composed entirely of free software. Work began in 1984. Later, in 1985, Stallman started the Free Software Foundation and wrote the GNU General Public License (GNU GPL) in 1989. By the early 1990s, many of the programs required in an operating system (such as libraries, compilers, text editors, a command-line shell, and a windowing system) were completed, although low-level elements such as device drivers, daemons, and the kernel, called GNU Hurd, were stalled and incomplete.\n\nMINIX was created by Andrew S. Tanenbaum, a computer science professor, and released in 1987 as a minimal Unix-like operating system targeted at students and others who wanted to learn operating system principles. Although the complete source code of MINIX was freely available, the licensing terms prevented it from being free software until the licensing changed in April 2000.\n\nAlthough not released until 1992, due to legal complications, development of 386BSD, from which NetBSD, OpenBSD and FreeBSD descended, predated that of Linux.\n\nLinus Torvalds has stated on separate occasions that if the GNU kernel or 386BSD had been available at the time (1991), he probably would not have created Linux.\n Question: History of Linux", "output": "Linux, computer operating system created in the early 1990s by Finnish software engineer Linus Torvalds and the Free Software Foundation (FSF).\n\nWhile still a student at the University of Helsinki, Torvalds started developing Linux to create a system similar to MINIX, a UNIX operating system. In 1991 he released version 0.02; Version 1.0 of the Linux kernel, the core of the operating system, was released in 1994. About the same time, American software developer Richard Stallman and the FSF made efforts to create an open-source UNIX-like operating system called GNU. In contrast to Torvalds, Stallman and the FSF started by creating utilities for the operating system first. These utilities were then added to the Linux kernel to create a complete system called GNU/Linux, or, less precisely, just Linux."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta (/\u02c8st\u025bf\u0259ni \u02ccd\u0292\u025c\u02d0rm\u0259\u02c8n\u0252t\u0259/ (listen) STEF-\u0259n-ee JUR-m\u0259-NOT-\u0259; born March 28, 1986), known professionally as Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter and actress. She is known for her image reinventions and musical versatility. Gaga began performing as a teenager, singing at open mic nights and acting in school plays. She studied at Collaborative Arts Project 21, through the New York University Tisch School of the Arts, before dropping out to pursue a career in music. After Def Jam Recordings canceled her contract, she worked as a songwriter for Sony/ATV Music Publishing, where she signed a joint deal with Interscope Records and KonLive Distribution, in 2007. Gaga had her breakthrough the following year with her debut studio album, The Fame, and its chart-topping singles \"Just Dance\" and \"Poker Face\". The album was later reissued to include the extended play The Fame Monster (2009), which yielded the successful singles \"Bad Romance\", \"Telephone\", and \"Alejandro\".\n Question: What is Lady Gaga's real name?", "output": "Lady Gaga is the professional name for Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Dieveni\u0161k\u0117s (in Lithuanian literally: Place of gods; Polish: Dziewieniszki; Belarusian: \u0414\u0437\u0435\u0432\u044f\u043d\u0456\u0448\u043a\u0456 Dzevyanishki) is a town in the Vilnius County of Lithuania, about 6 kilometres (3.7 mi) from the Belarusian border in the so-called Dieveni\u0161k\u0117s appendix. It is surrounded by the Dieveni\u0161k\u0117s Regional Park.\n Question: Where is Dieveniskes located", "output": "Dieveniskes, in Lithuanian literally: Place of gods is a town in the Vilnius County of Lithuania, about 6 kilometres (3.7 mi) from the Belarusian border in the so-called Dieveniskes appendix. It is surrounded by the Dieveniskes Regional Park."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Cycle Messenger World Championships, or CMWCs, are an annual urban cycling competition whereby cycle messengers and cycling enthusiasts showcase their skills in an array of events, many of which simulate everyday tasks for a cycle messenger. Each year, the CMWCs are held in a different city around the world, with each host city designing its own unique course. The highlight of the CMWCs is the main race in which cyclists are given manifests and must pickup and deliver items to various locations around the host city as quickly and efficiently as possible. The total number of pickups and deliveries, or \"drop offs\" is unknown to the messengers before the race, but has been known to reach up to 100 stops and usually takes between 3\u20134 hours to complete. The cyclist who completes all of the assigned deliveries in the least amount of time wins the race. In addition to the main race there are also several side events which have become increasingly popular over the past few years. These events change yearly depending on the discretion of the host city but usually include backward circles, bike polo, bunnyhop, cargo race, longest skid, sprints, and trackstand.\n Question: What does CMWCs stand for?", "output": "The Cycle Messenger World Championships"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Nintendo was founded in 1889 as Nintendo Karuta by craftsman Fusajiro Yamauchi and originally produced handmade hanafuda playing cards. After venturing into various lines of business during the 1960s and acquiring a legal status as a public company, Nintendo distributed its first console, the Color TV-Game, in 1977. It gained international recognition with the release of Donkey Kong in 1981 and the Nintendo Entertainment System and Super Mario Bros. in 1985.\n Question: Given this reference text about Nintendo, when was it founded?", "output": "1889"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A lonely twentysomething, Becky Green, becomes obsessed with the suicide of her estranged childhood friend Chloe and assumes a new identity as Sasha to engineer a \"chance\" meeting with Chloe's best friend, Livia, at an art event, followed by another run-in at a yoga class.\n\nSasha then infiltrates Chloe's group of close-knit friends. She also gains a job outside her genuine work experience through Livia's contacts as she attempts to discover why Chloe died. Through her new alter-ego, she leads a life that is far more exciting than her life as Becky.\n\nA series of flashbacks reveals that Becky had two missed calls from Chloe minutes before her death. As Sasha, Becky eventually uncovers the truth of Chloe\u2019s clandestine activities she has hidden from her husband and friends.\n\nBecky starts an affair with Chloe's widowed husband, Elliot; whereas the rest of the group including Elliot's mother disapproves of their relationship. Elliot decides to run for election, Becky and Livia run his campaign along with Elliot's friend Nish.\n Question: Who is Sasha? How does her life compare to Becky?", "output": "Sasha is a new identity assumed by Becky in order to engineer a \"chance\" meeting with Chloe's best friend, Livia, at an art event, followed by another run-in at a yoga class. Becky continues to live life as both Becky and Sasha. Sasha infiltrates Chloe's group of close-knit friends and ends up gaining a job outside her genuine work experience. Sasha leads a life that is far more exciting than her life as Becky."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Scarlett Ingrid Johansson (/d\u0292o\u028a\u02c8h\u00e6ns\u0259n/; born November 22, 1984) is an American actress. The world's highest-paid actress in 2018 and 2019, she has featured multiple times on the Forbes Celebrity 100 list. Time named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2021. Her films have grossed over $14.3 billion worldwide, making Johansson the highest-grossing box office star of all time. She has received various accolades, including a Tony Award and a British Academy Film Award, in addition to nominations for two Academy Awards and five Golden Globe Awards.\n Question: When was Scarlett Johansson born?", "output": "Scarlett Johansson was born November 22, 1984."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Onomatopoeia[note 1] is the use or creation of a word that phonetically imitates, resembles, or suggests the sound that it describes. Such a word itself is also called an onomatopoeia. Common onomatopoeias include animal noises such as oink, meow (or miaow), roar, and chirp. Onomatopoeia can differ between languages: it conforms to some extent to the broader linguistic system; hence the sound of a clock may be expressed as tick tock in English, tic tac in Spanish and Italian (shown in the picture), d\u012b d\u0101 in Mandarin, kachi kachi in Japanese, or tik-tik in Hindi.\n Question: What is the word that suggests the sound that it describes?", "output": "Onomatopoeia is a word that phonetically imitates, resembles, or suggests the sound that it describes."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tanki is Papiamento for \"pond\", and Leendert is a common surname. An Amerindian village has been discovered near the town measuring 450 by 400 metres. It is one of the four known Amerindian settlements on Aruba. European pottery, pipes and bottles from the 18th century have also been discovered on the same site, suggesting a later resettlement.\n Question: Other than Tanki, how many other known Amerindian settlements are on Aruba?", "output": "Three (3). 4 - 1 = 3"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Although Khan was given the birth name Shahrukh Khan, he prefers his name to be written as Shah Rukh Khan, and is commonly referred to by the initialism SRK. He married Gauri Chibber, a Punjabi Hindu, in a traditional Hindu wedding ceremony on 25 October 1991, after a six-year courtship. They have a son Aryan (born 1997) and a daughter Suhana (born 2000). In 2013, they became parents of a third child, a son named AbRam, who was born through a surrogate mother. Both his elder children have expressed interest in entering the entertainment industry; Khan has stated that Aryan, who studied filmmaking at the USC School of Cinematic Arts in California, aspires to become a writer-director, while Suhana, who served as assistant director for Khan's film Zero (2018), is studying drama and acting at NYU's Tisch School of the Arts for higher education. Suhana made her acting debut in November 2019, in a short film titled \"The Grey Part of Blue.\" According to Khan, while he strongly believes in Islam, he also values his wife's religion. His children follow both religions; at his home the Qur'an is situated next to the murti of Hindu deities.\n Question: Given the reference article, Please give marriage date of indian actor Shahrukh Khan", "output": "Shahrukh Khan married Gauri in a traditional Hindu wedding ceremony on 25 October 1991"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Brandon Winn Sanderson (born December 19, 1975) is an American author of high fantasy and science fiction. He is best known for the Cosmere fictional universe, in which most of his fantasy novels, most notably the Mistborn series and The Stormlight Archive, are set. Outside of the Cosmere, he has written several young adult and juvenile series including The Reckoners, the Skyward series, and the Alcatraz series. He is also known for finishing Robert Jordan's high fantasy series The Wheel of Time. Sanderson has created several graphic novel fantasy series, including White Sand and Dark One.\n\nHe created Sanderson's Laws of Magic and popularized the idea of \"hard magic\" and \"soft magic\" systems. In 2008, Sanderson started a podcast with author Dan Wells and cartoonist Howard Tayler called Writing Excuses, involving topics about creating genre writing and webcomics. In 2016, the American media company DMG Entertainment licensed the movie rights to Sanderson's entire Cosmere universe, but the rights have since reverted back to Sanderson. Sanderson's March 2022 Kickstarter campaign became the most successful in history, finishing with 185,341 backers pledging $41,754,153.\n Question: Who is Brandon Sanderson?", "output": "Brandon Sanderson is an American author who primarily writes high fantasy and science fiction. He is known for creating the Cosmere, a fantasy world in which many of his books are set. Among his notable works Cosmere are The Stormlight Archive and the Mistborn series. Beyond the Cosmere, he is also known for writing YA fiction, such as The Reckoners and Skyward series. Additionally, he is known for popularizing the notions of \"hard\" and \"soft\" magic systems in fantasy worlds."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: James Stuart Pressdee (19 June 1933 \u2013 20 July 2016) was a Welsh first class cricketer. He was a left-arm spinner and aggressive right-handed batsman. He also played association football in the Football League and Welsh Football League where he played as a left-back.\n\nFootball Career\nHe won a Welsh youth cap at football and was on the books at Swansea Town where provided reliable defensive cover. He turned professional at the Vetch Field in August 1951. He was given his League debut in Swansea's 2\u20130 defeat at home to Everton in March 1954, making eight Second Division appearances before concentrating on his cricket career. He also had spells with Brecon Corinthians and Llanelly in the Welsh Football League.\n\nCricket Career\nPressdee made his debut for Glamorgan against Nottinghamshire at Cardiff Arms Park when just 16 years of age, making him the county's youngest player in the post-war period.\n\nA regular in the Glamorgan team from 1955 onwards, Pressdee scored a thousand runs in a season on six occasions, with 1911 in 1962 being his best. He scored 13 centuries including one for North-Eastern Transvaal. Playing 322 games for Glamorgan CCC between 1949 and 1965.\n\nPressdee was an inconsistent bowler. Having taken 71 wickets in 1955, he captured only 54 during the next seven seasons, but then in 1963 and 1964 he came to prominence as an all-rounder, completing the double (1000 runs and 100 wickets) in each season. In 1965, he took 9 for 43 against Yorkshire at Swansea. Pressdee emigrated to South Africa in 1965 where he played for North-Eastern Transvaal until 1969\u201370. He won the South African Cricket Annual Cricketer of the Year award in 1966 after taking 33 wickets.\n\nPressdee returned to Wales in the 1980s and captained the Glamorgan Colts side in the South Wales Cricket Association.\n Question: Given this text about James Pressdee, tell me what sports they played, which awards they won, when they were born, and if they are still alive.", "output": "James Stuart Pressdee played both football and cricket. Though he was an inconsistent bowler, he won the South African Cricket Annual Cricketer of the Year award in 1966. Prior to his professional sports career, James won a Welsh youth cap in football in Swansea Town. Jame was born on June 19th, 1933, and he died on July 20th, 2016 at the age of 83."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Navy Cross is the United States Naval Service's second-highest military decoration awarded for sailors and marines who distinguish themselves for extraordinary heroism in combat with an armed enemy force. The medal is equivalent to the Army's Distinguished Service Cross, the Air and Space Forces' Air Force Cross, and the Coast Guard Cross.\n\nThe Navy Cross is bestowed by the Secretary of the Navy and may also be awarded to members of the other armed services, and to foreign military personnel while serving with the U.S. Naval Service. The Navy Cross was established by Act of Congress (Public Law 65-253) and approved on February 4, 1919.\n Question: Who does the Navy Cross is awarded to?", "output": "The Navy Cross is awarded to Sailors and Marines who display heroism in combat with an armed enemy force."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Presidential elections were held in Montenegro on 19 March 2023. Long-ruling incumbent president Milo \u0110ukanovi\u0107 was eligible for re-election. Since no candidate received a majority of the vote, a second round vote was held on 2 April. In the first round, \u0110ukanovi\u0107, leader of the populist DPS, received 35%, coming first. Jakov Milatovi\u0107, candidate of the newly formed centrist Europe Now! movement, running on an anti-corruption platform, outperformed the polls, gaining 29% of the votes and faced \u0110ukanovi\u0107 in the second round. Andrija Mandi\u0107, one of the leaders of the right-wing populist DF secured 19% of the votes, finishing third in the first round. The second round runoff resulted in Milatovi\u0107 defeating Milo \u0110ukanovi\u0107 in a landslide, becoming the first elected president not being a member of the \u0110ukanovi\u0107's DPS since introduction of the multi-party system in 1990, winning roughly 60% of the popular vote. It was the first time a runoff vote was held since the 1997 election, making it first presidential runoff since Montenegro gained independence in 2006, also the first election since 1997 where an incumbent president actively seeking reelection was denied a second term.\n Question: Given this paragraph, who won the Montenegro presidential elections and how much of the vote did they receive in each runoff round?", "output": "Jakov Milatovi\u0107 was the winner, receiving 29% of the votes in the first round and 60% of the popular vote in the second round."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Chris Kuroda, who has been Phish's lighting director since 1989, creates elaborate light displays during the band's concerts that are sometimes improvised in a similar fashion to their music. Justin Taylor of The Baffler wrote, \"You could hate this music with every fiber of your being and still be ready to give Chris Kuroda a MacArthur \"genius\" grant for what he achieves with his light rig.\" Kuroda is often referred to by fans as the unofficial fifth member of the band, and has been given the nickname \"CK5\".\n Question: Based on this passage, why is Chris Kuroda's nickname CK5?", "output": "Chris Kuroda's nickname, CK5, adds the number 5 to his initial. That is because his improvised light shows during Phish concerts give him a role comparable to a fifth member of the band."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: On March 14, 1909, the Sacramento Union reported that Robert E. Cranston was about to begin work on a $10,000 residence and garage that had been designed by the architectural firm of Sellon & Hemmings.\n\nThe building permit was issued to Cranston two months later (May 20, 1909).16 It indicated that the two-story frame dwelling and its garage were expected to cost $11,000, an increase over the price estimated in March. Three years later, when it was sold to the Geary family, the house was reported by a Sacramento Bee journalist to have cost more than $25,000 to build.\n Question: How much more did the house cost than originally planned? Express as an absolute or nominal difference, not as a percentage.", "output": "$15,000 more than originally planned. The house cost $25,000 but was originally quoted at $10,000. $25,000 - $10,000 = $15,000"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: After an ice storm in December 2015, the 13-year-old dome collapsed. It housed several events for indoor track athletes, including practices and meets, practice room for all winter sports teams, physical education classes, and various community events.\n\nThe dome was designed by Air Structures American Technologies Inc. and cost $3 million at the time of its construction in 2002. It was meant to last 15\u201320 years.\n Question: Did the dome last as long as it was designed for?", "output": "No, it did not. The dome only lasted 13 years, but it was designed to last 15-20 years."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Gaya Island (Malay: Pulau Gaya) is a sizeable Malaysian island of 1,465 ha, just 10 minutes off Kota Kinabalu, Sabah and forms part of the Tunku Abdul Rahman National Park. Gaya Island derived its name from the Bajau word \"Gayo\" which means big and occupies an area of 15 km2 (3,700 acres) with an elevation of up to 300 metres. Several ridges rise more than 600 feet (180 m), peaking at 1,000 feet (300 m), along the backbone of Gaya Island.\n\nGaya is the largest island in the Tunku Abdul Rahman National Park, closest to downtown Kota Kinabalu (KK) and is covered with dense virgin, tropical forest. It has been a forest reserve since 1923. The island has 20 km of hiking trails and three 5 star resorts named Gayana Marine Resort, home to the Marine Ecology Research Centre, the neighboring Gaya Island Resort (by YTL Hotel Group), the Bunga Raya Island Resort on the north-east part of the island. Historically, Gaya Island was also the site of the English colonialist's British North Borneo Company's harbour, razed by the folk hero Mat Salleh on 9 July 1897.\n\nIn recent years, there has been a plan to turn Gaya Island into a city island and tourism hub. A cable car line has also been proposed before to connect with the city centre.\n Question: Given a reference text about Gaya Island, how many hiking trails and 5 star resorts are on the island?", "output": "Gaya Island has 20km of hiking trails and three 5 star resorts."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Eurovision Song Contest 1987 was the 32nd edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest. It took place in Brussels, Belgium, following the country's victory at the 1986 contest with the song \"J'aime la vie\" by Sandra Kim. Organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and host broadcaster Radio-t\u00e9l\u00e9vision belge de la Communaut\u00e9 fran\u00e7aise (RTBF), the contest was held at the Centenary Palace on 9 May 1987 (also Europe Day) and hosted by French-Belgian singer Viktor Lazlo.\n\nTwenty-two countries took part in the contest with Greece and Italy returning to the competition after their absences the previous year. This set the record for the highest number of competing countries up until that point.\n\nThe winner was Ireland with the song \"Hold Me Now\" by Johnny Logan, who had also won the 1980 contest. He remains the only performer to have won the Eurovision Song Contest twice.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Eurovision Song Contest 1987, tell me where it took place, and how many countries participated.", "output": "The Eurovision Song Contest 1987 took place in Brussels, Belgium and twenty-two countries participated."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ernest Joseph \"Trey\" Anastasio III (born September 30, 1964) is an American guitarist, singer, and songwriter, best known as the lead guitarist of the rock band Phish, which he co-founded in 1983. He is credited by name as composer of 152 Phish original songs, 141 of them as a solo credit, in addition to 41 credits attributed to the band as a whole. In addition to his work with Phish, Anastasio has released 11 solo albums, and been part of several side projects including the Trey Anastasio Band, Oysterhead, Ghosts of the Forest, Phil Lesh and Friends, and Surrender to the Air.\n Question: Given this reference text, how old was Trey Anastasio when he co-founded Phish?", "output": "Based on this passage, Trey was most likely 19 years old. He was born at the end of September in 1964 so there is a 25% chance that he was 20 years old when he co-founded Phish."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cyberpunk 2077 is a 2020 action role-playing video game developed by CD Projekt Red and published by CD Projekt. Set in Night City, an open world set in the Cyberpunk universe, players assume the role of a customisable mercenary known as V, who can acquire skills in hacking and machinery with options for melee and ranged combat. The main story follows V's struggle as they deal with a mysterious cybernetic implant that threatens to overwrite their body with the personality and memories of a deceased celebrity only perceived by V; the two must work together to be separated and save V's life.\n Question: Who is the protagonist in CyberPunk 2077?", "output": "The main story revolves around the protagonist V, as they deal with a mysterious cybernetic implant that threatens to overwrite their body with another person's memories."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Voyager Golden Records are two phonograph records that were included aboard both Voyager spacecraft launched in 1977. The records contain sounds and images selected to portray the diversity of life and culture on Earth, and are intended for any intelligent extraterrestrial life form who may find them. The records are a time capsule.\n\nAlthough neither Voyager spacecraft is heading toward any particular star, Voyager 1 will pass within 1.6 light-years' distance of the star Gliese 445, currently in the constellation Camelopardalis, in about 40,000 years.\n\nCarl Sagan noted that \"The spacecraft will be encountered and the record played only if there are advanced space-faring civilizations in interstellar space, but the launching of this 'bottle' into the cosmic 'ocean' says something very hopeful about life on this planet.\"\n\nThe contents of the record were selected for NASA by a committee chaired by Carl Sagan of Cornell University. The selection of content for the record took almost a year. Sagan and his associates assembled 115 images and a variety of natural sounds, such as those made by surf, wind, thunder and animals (including the songs of birds and whales). To this they added audio content to represent humanity: spoken greetings in 55 ancient and modern languages, including a spoken greeting in English by U.N. Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim and a greeting by Sagan's six-year-old son, Nick; other human sounds, like footsteps and laughter (Sagan's); the inspirational message Per aspera ad astra in Morse code; and musical selections from different cultures and eras. The record also includes a printed message from U.S. president Jimmy Carter.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Golden Records, tell me what it is, where it is heading, who/when created it.", "output": "The Voyager Golden Records was created by NASA committee and chaired by Carl Sagan launched in 1977 heading to any particular star passing within 1.6 light-years' distance of the star Gliese 445, currently in the constellation Camelopardalis, in about 40,000 years. The contents provided depict diversity of life and culture on Earth through sounds and images."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill (30 November 1874 \u2013 24 January 1965) was a British statesman, soldier, and writer who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom twice, from 1940 to 1945 during the Second World War, and again from 1951 to 1955. Apart from two years between 1922 and 1924, he was a Member of Parliament (MP) from 1900 to 1964 and represented a total of five constituencies. Ideologically an economic liberal and imperialist, he was for most of his career a member of the Conservative Party, which he led from 1940 to 1955. He was a member of the Liberal Party from 1904 to 1924.\n Question: In total how long was Winston Churchill the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.", "output": "A total of 9 years in 2 spells between 1940 to 1945 and 1951 to 1955."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lean manufacturing is a production method aimed primarily at reducing times within the production system as well as response times from suppliers and to customers. It is closely related to another concept called just-in-time manufacturing (JIT manufacturing in short). Just-in-time manufacturing tries to match production to demand by only supplying goods which have been ordered and focuses on efficiency, productivity (with a commitment to continuous improvement) and reduction of \"wastes\" for the producer and supplier of goods. Lean manufacturing adopts the just-in-time approach and additionally focuses on reducing cycle, flow and throughput times by further eliminating activities which do not add any value for the customer. Lean manufacturing also involves people who work outside of the manufacturing process, such as in marketing and customer service.\n Question: What is Lean manufacturing", "output": "Lean is a production method."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Silvio Berlusconi (/\u02ccb\u025b\u0259rl\u028a\u02c8sko\u028ani/ BAIR-luu-SKOH-nee; Italian: [\u02c8silvjo berlu\u02c8sko\u02d0ni] (listen); born 29 September 1936) is an Italian media tycoon and politician who served as Prime Minister of Italy in four governments from 1994 to 1995, 2001 to 2006 and 2008 to 2011. He was a member of the Chamber of Deputies from 1994 to 2013, and has served as a member of the Senate of the Republic since 2022, and previously from March to November 2013, and as a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) since 2019, and previously from 1999 to 2001.\n\nBerlusconi is the controlling shareholder of Mediaset and owned the Italian football club A.C. Milan from 1986 to 2017. He is nicknamed Il Cavaliere (The Knight) for his Order of Merit for Labour. \nThe Order of Merit for Labour (Italian: Ordine al Merito del Lavoro) is an Italian order of chivalry that was founded in 1923 by King Vittorio Emanuele III. It is awarded to those \"who have been singularly meritorious\" in agriculture, industry and commerce, crafts, lending and insurance. It is a continuation of the earlier Ordine al Merito Agrario, Industriale e Commerciale founded in 1901. Members of the order may use the title Cavaliere del lavoro.\n\nHe voluntarily resigned from this order in March 2014. In 2018, Forbes ranked him as the 190th richest man in the world with a net worth of US$8 billion. In 2009, Forbes ranked him 12th in the list of the World's Most Powerful People due to his domination of Italian politics throughout more than twenty years at the head of the centre-right coalition.\n\nBerlusconi was Prime Minister for nine years in total, making him the longest serving post-war Prime Minister of Italy, and the third longest-serving since Italian unification, after Benito Mussolini and Giovanni Giolitti. He was the leader of the centre-right party Forza Italia from 1994 to 2009, and its successor party The People of Freedom from 2009 to 2013. Since November 2013, he has led a revived Forza Italia. Berlusconi was the senior G8 leader from 2009 until 2011, and he currently holds the record for hosting G8 summits (having hosted three summits in Italy). After serving nearly 19 years as a member of the Chamber of Deputies, the country's lower house, he became a member of the Senate following the 2013 Italian general election.\n Question: Tell me when Silvio Berlusconi was born, how long has he been Prime Minister in Italy and what his nickname is", "output": "Silvio Berlusconi was born on September 29, 1936 and has been in charge as Prime Minister in Italy for a total of 9 years (from 1994 to 1995, 2001 to 2006 and 2008 to 2011). His nickname is Il Cavaliere (The Knight) because he was awarded the Order of Merit for Labour, which is an Italian order of chivalry awarded to those \"who have been singularly meritorious\" in agriculture, industry and commerce, crafts, lending and insurance."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: During preliminary reviews in 2011, the launch date of Artemis was placed somewhere between 2019 and 2021, but afterwards the launch date was delayed to 2023 on a Space Launch System (SLS) launch vehicle. Although, as of March 2023, the mission is pegged for a November 2024 launch, the need to recycle and refurbish components from Orion that flew on Artemis 1 may push this back to later in 2024 or the first quarter of 2025.\n Question: What is the launch date of Artemis mission?", "output": "Artemis launch date is November 2024 as of now but it\u2019s likely to change."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1977, Trump married Czech model Ivana Zeln\u00ed\u010dkov\u00e1. They had three children: Donald Jr. (born 1977), Ivanka (born 1981), and Eric (born 1984). Ivana became a naturalized United States citizen in 1988. The couple divorced in 1990, following Trump's affair with actress Marla Maples. Trump and Maples married in 1993 and divorced in 1999. They have one daughter, Tiffany (born 1993), who was raised by Marla in California. In 2005, Trump married Slovenian model Melania Knauss. They have one son, Barron (born 2006). Melania gained U.S. citizenship in 2006.\n Question: How many Children Trump has?", "output": "From his marriages he has 5 children from three marriages."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Walmart is the world's largest company by revenue, with about US$570 billion in annual revenue, according to the Fortune Global 500 list in October 2022. It is also the largest private employer in the world with 2.2 million employees. It is a publicly traded family-owned business, as the company is controlled by the Walton family. Sam Walton's heirs own over 50 percent of Walmart through both their holding company Walton Enterprises and their individual holdings. Walmart was the largest United States grocery retailer in 2019, and 65 percent of Walmart's US$510.329 billion sales came from U.S. operations.\n Question: What is the largest employer in the world?", "output": "Walmart"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The dog has been selectively bred over millennia for various behaviors, sensory capabilities, and physical attributes. Dog breeds vary widely in shape, size, and color. They perform many roles for humans, such as hunting, herding, pulling loads, protection, assisting police and the military, companionship, therapy, and aiding disabled people. Over the millennia, dogs became uniquely adapted to human behavior, and the human\u2013canine bond has been a topic of frequent study. This influence on human society has given them the sobriquet of \"man's best friend\".\n Question: What are dogs?", "output": "The dog (Canis familiaris or Canis lupus familiaris) is a domesticated descendant of the wolf. Also called the domestic dog, it is derived from the extinct Pleistocene wolf, and the modern wolf is the dog's nearest living relative. Dogs were the first species to be domesticated by hunter-gatherers over 15,000 years ago before the development of agriculture. Due to their long association with humans, dogs have expanded to a large number of domestic individuals and gained the ability to thrive on a starch-rich diet that would be inadequate for other canids."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Alexander III of Macedon (Ancient Greek: \u1f08\u03bb\u03ad\u03be\u03b1\u03bd\u03b4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2, romanized: Alexandros; 20/21 July 356 BC \u2013 10/11 June 323 BC), commonly known as Alexander the Great, was a king of the ancient Greek kingdom of Macedon. He succeeded his father Philip II to the throne in 336 BC at the age of 20, and spent most of his ruling years conducting a lengthy military campaign throughout Western Asia and Egypt. By the age of 30, he had created one of the largest empires in history, stretching from Greece to northwestern India. He was undefeated in battle and is\n Question: Where was Alexander The Great from?", "output": "Alexender the Great was king of the ancient kingdom of Macedonia."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: On Rotten Tomatoes, the series holds an overall approval rating of 88%, with a rating of 77% for season 1, 89% for season 2, 93% for season 3, 97% for season 4, and 86% for season 5. The site's critical consensus for the first season reads: \"Despite a lack of likable characters, Billions' soapy melodrama and larger-than-life canvas offer plenty of repeat viewing potential.\" For season 2 it reads: \"An influx of new characters and a fresh narrative twist give Billions an added boost during its thoroughly entertaining second season.\" The site's critical consensus for the third season states: \"Anchored by the performances of Paul Giamatti and Damian Lewis, the third season of Billions continues a convincing fable of greed, power and competition.\" On Rotten Tomatoes, the fourth season reads, \"With tables turned and alliances formed, Billions's fourth season goes full throttle with sharp dialogue, better rivalries, and bigger stakes.\" On Metacritic, the show has an overall score of 72. The first season has a weighted average score of 69 out of 100, based on reviews from 37 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\", while the second season has a score of 67 out of 100, based on reviews from 6 critics, also indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". Praise for the series has steadily grown over time\u2014also on Metacritic, its third season scored a 77 out of 100, while its fourth holds a score of 87 out 100 based on reviews from 4 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim\". The show's coverage of the hedge fund industry has been widely recognized as realistic.\n Question: What does this text say about the first season of Billions?", "output": "The show Billions received a Rotten Tomatoes approval rating of 77% for season 1. The site's critical consensus for the first season reads: \"Despite a lack of likable characters, Billions' soapy melodrama and larger-than-life canvas offer plenty of repeat viewing potential\". On Metacritic, the first season has a weighted average score of 69 out of 100, based on reviews from 37 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Vegetarianism is the practice of abstaining from the consumption of meat (red meat, poultry, seafood, insects, and the flesh of any other animal). It may also include abstaining from eating all by-products of animal slaughter.\n\nVegetarianism may be adopted for various reasons. Many people object to eating meat out of respect for sentient animal life. Such ethical motivations have been codified under various religious beliefs as well as animal rights advocacy. Other motivations for vegetarianism are health-related, political, environmental, cultural, economic, taste-related, or relate to other personal preferences.\"\n Question: What is the definition of Vegetarian?", "output": "Vegetarianism is the practice of abstaining from the consumption of meat (red meat, poultry, seafood, insects, and the flesh of any other animal)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jens Stub (3 March 1764 \u2013 24 October 1819) was a Norwegian priest and politician. He was vicar on the island of Ve\u00f8ya and served as a representative at the Norwegian Constitutional Assembly at Eidsvoll in 1814.\n Question: Was Jens Stub Swedish?", "output": "No, he was Norwegian."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lake Michigan is one of the five Great Lakes of North America. It is the second-largest of the Great Lakes by volume (1,180 cu mi (4,900 km3)) and the third-largest by surface area (22,404 sq mi (58,030 km2)), after Lake Superior and Lake Huron. To the east, its basin is conjoined with that of Lake Huron through the 3+1\u20442 miles (5.6 kilometres) wide, 295 feet (90 metres; 49 fathoms) deep, Straits of Mackinac, giving it the same surface elevation as its easterly counterpart; the two are technically a single lake.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Lake Michigan, tell me where Lake Michigan ranks in terms of size by volume.", "output": "Lake Michigan is ranked second by volume"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Enrico Silvestrin (born 30 May 1972) is an Italian actor, television and radio presenter and musician.\n\nLife and career\nBorn in Rome, after a supporting role in Michele Placido's Close Friends, in 1994 Silvestrin started working as a VJ on MTV Europe, and later on MTV Italy. In 2000, he refused the Gabriele Muccino's offer of starring in The Last Kiss preferring a role in the Italia 1 sitcom Via Zanardi 33, which eventually turned to be a flop.\n\nIn 2005 Silvestrin left MTV as to focus on his acting career. He then appeared in a number of films and TV-series, getting a personal success with the role of Alessandro Berti in the Canale 5 crime series Distretto di Polizia. In 2007 he presented the Festivalbar. In 2018 he competed in Grande Fratello VIP, the Italian adaptation of Celebrity Big Brother. He was the third contestant to be evicted on day 22.\n\nSilvestrin is also active as a musician. He has been part of the musical groups Agony in Cage, Tempus Fugit, Ilor and Silv3man. He is nephew on his mother's side of actor and playwright Peppino De Filippo.\n Question: given this article about Enrico Silvestrin, what year did he get evicted from Celebrity Big Brother?", "output": "2018"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bangalore is situated in the southeast of the South Indian state of Karnataka. It is positioned at 12.97\u00b0 N 77.56\u00b0 E and covers an area of 2,190 square kilometres (850 sq mi). A landlocked city, Bangalore is located in the heart of the Mysore Plateau (a region of the larger Deccan Plateau) at an average elevation of 920 metres (3,020 ft). Bangalore district borders with Kolar and Chikkaballapur in the northeast, Tumkur in the northwest, and Mandya and Ramanagaram in the southeast.\n Question: Why Bangalore climate is pleasant", "output": "Bangalore city is positioned at a 920 mt high altitude from the sea level. Bangalore is nearest to both Arabian Sea & Bay of Bengal. Hence it receives plenty of rainfall & makes the place cooler as compared to rest of the cities in India. Along with this the city is full of big & old trees which adds up to the environment and makes more cooler with greenery."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Every key on a mechanical-switch keyboard contains a complete switch underneath. Each switch is composed of a housing, a spring, and a stem, and sometimes other parts such as a separate tactile leaf or a clickbar. Switches come in three variants: \"linear\" with consistent resistance, \"tactile\" with a non-audible bump, and \"clicky\" with both a bump and an audible click. Depending on the resistance of the spring, the key requires different amounts of pressure to actuate and to bottom out. The shape of the stem as well as the design of the switch housing varies the actuation distance and travel distance of the switch. The sound can be altered by the material of the plate, case, lubrication, the keycap profile, and even modifying the individual switch. These modifications, or \"mods\" include applying lubricant to reduce friction inside the switch itself, inserting \"switch films\" to reduce wobble, swapping out the spring inside to modify the resistance of the switch itself and many more. Mechanical keyboards allow for the removal and replacement of keycaps with a common stem type.\n Question: In the following passage about mechanical-switch keyboards, which keyboards are the loudest, and how can I make them quieter?", "output": "Mechanical-switch keyboards with \"Clicky\" switches come with both a bump and an audible click. Without adjusting the material of the plates or case, the way for users to reduce the noise would be to replace the keycaps or applying lubricant to reduce friction inside the switch."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Stade Louis-II, also known as Louis II (French pronunciation: \u200b[stad(\u0259) lwi d\u00f8]) is a stadium located in the Fontvieille district of Monaco. It serves primarily as a venue for football, being the home of AS Monaco and the Monaco national football team. The stadium is most notable for its distinctive nine arches at the away end of the ground. The arena is also used for the Herculis, a track and field meet of the Diamond League. The stadium hosted the 1986 and 1998\u20132012 UEFA Super Cup matches. Due to Monaco's small size, the stadium is the only football and athletics stadium in the country.\n Question: Where is the Stade Louis-ll located?", "output": "The Stade Louis-ll is located in the Fontvielle district of Monaco."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 2012 Safeway invested $350 million into retrofitting 800 locations with clinics that would offer in-store blood tests. After many missed deadlines and questionable results from a trial clinic at Safeway's corporate offices, the deal was terminated in 2015. In 2013, Theranos partnered with Walgreens to offer in-store blood tests at more than 40 locations. Although Theranos blood tests were reportedly used on drug trial patients for GlaxoSmithKline and Pfizer, both companies stated that there were no active projects with Theranos in October 2015. In June 2016, Walgreens terminated its partnership with Theranos. In November 2016 it filed suit against Theranos in federal court in Delaware for breach of contract. In June 2017, Theranos reported to investors that the suit, which originally sought $140 million in damages, was settled for less than $30 million.\n\nIn March 2015 the Cleveland Clinic announced a partnership with Theranos to test its technology and decrease the cost of lab tests. In July 2015, Theranos became the lab-work provider for Pennsylvania insurers AmeriHealth Caritas and Capital Blue Cross.\n\nIn July 2015 the Food and Drug Administration approved the use of the company's fingerstick blood testing device for the herpes simplex virus (HSV-1) outside a clinical laboratory setting. Theranos was named the 2015 Bioscience Company of the Year by the Arizona BioIndustry Association (AzBio).\n Question: Which companies did Theranos partner with in 2015?", "output": "Theranos partnered with Cleveland Clinic in March 2015 to test its technology and decrease the cost of lab tests. In July 2015, Theranos became the lab-work provider for Pennsylvania insurers AmeriHealth Caritas and Capital Blue Cross."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Most modern surfboards are made of fiberglass foam (PU), with one or more wooden strips or \"stringers\", fiberglass cloth, and polyester resin (PE). An emerging board material is epoxy resin and Expanded Polystyrene foam (EPS) which is stronger and lighter than traditional PU/PE construction. Even newer designs incorporate materials such as carbon fiber and variable-flex composites in conjunction with fiberglass and epoxy or polyester resins. Since epoxy/EPS surfboards are generally lighter, they will float better than a traditional PU/PE board of similar size, shape and thickness. This makes them easier to paddle and faster in the water. However, a common complaint of EPS boards is that they do not provide as much feedback as a traditional PU/PE board. For this reason, many advanced surfers prefer that their surfboards be made from traditional materials.\n Question: Given this paragraph about surfboards, summarize what a surfboard is made of", "output": "Surfboards can be made out of a variety of materials, but most surfboards these days are made from a foam core that is coated in a hard exterior"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Housman received his BA in 1966 and MA in 1971 from Brandeis University. As one of the first postdocs in the lab of Harvey Lodish at MIT, Housman showed that all mammalian proteins begin with a methionine residue transferred from a specific met-initiator tRNA. Between 1973 and 1975 he taught at the University of Toronto and was on the staff of the Ontario Cancer Institute. He joined the MIT faculty in 1975. In his lab at MIT, he mentored Jim Gusella and Daniel Haber.\n Question: Where did David Houseman go to college?", "output": "David Houseman received his BA and MA in 1966 from Brandeis University."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Credit for the invention of the electric telephone is frequently disputed, and new controversies over the issue have arisen from time to time. Antonio Meucci, Alexander Graham Bell, and Elisha Gray amongst others, have all been credited with the telephone's invention. The early history of the telephone became and still remains a confusing morass of claims and counterclaims, which were not clarified by the huge number of lawsuits filed in order to resolve the patent claims of the many individuals and commercial competitors. The Bell and Edison patents, however, were commercially decisive, because they dominated telephone technology and were upheld by court decisions in the United States.\n\nThe modern telephone is the result of the work of many people. Alexander Graham Bell was, however, the first to patent the telephone, as an \"apparatus for transmitting vocal or other sounds telegraphically\". Bell has most often been credited as the inventor of the first practical telephone. Johann Philipp Reis coined the term \"telephon\". Models of it were sent abroad, to London, Dublin, Tiflis, and other places. It became a subject for popular lectures, and an article for scientific cabinets. Edison credited him as the \"first inventor of the telephone.\" The Italian-American inventor and businessman Antonio Meucci has been recognized by the U.S. House of Representatives for his contributory work on the telephone. Several other controversies also surround the question of priority of invention for the telephone.\nThe Elisha Gray and Alexander Bell telephone controversy considers the question of whether Bell and Gray invented the telephone independently and, if not, whether Bell stole the invention from Gray. This controversy is narrower than the broader question of who deserves credit for inventing the telephone, for which there are several claimants.\n Question: Who really invented the telephone ?", "output": "The telephone invention is a result of many contributions across the years. The most well-known, Antonio Meucci, Alexander Graham Bell, and Elisha Gray helped provided their knowledge and works to create the telephone as we know it today. Several people claimed credit for this creation but we can easily say that this invention is the fruit of humanity's collaboration to ease communication and get people closer across the globe."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Oyster is the common name for a number of different families of salt-water bivalve molluscs that live in marine or brackish habitats. In some species, the valves are highly calcified, and many are somewhat irregular in shape. Many, but not all oysters are in the superfamily Ostreoidea.\n Question: Where are oysters found?", "output": "Oyster is the common name for a number of different families of salt-water bivalve molluscs that live in marine or brackish habitats."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta (/\u02c8st\u025bf\u0259ni \u02ccd\u0292\u025c\u02d0rm\u0259\u02c8n\u0252t\u0259/ (listen) STEF-\u0259n-ee JUR-m\u0259-NOT-\u0259; born March 28, 1986), known professionally as Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter, and actress. She is known for her image reinventions and musical versatility. Gaga began performing as a teenager, singing at open mic nights and acting in school plays. She studied at Collaborative Arts Project 21, through the New York University Tisch School of the Arts, before dropping out to pursue a career in music.\n Question: What is Lady Gaga's real name?", "output": "Lady Gaga's real name is Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Vietnam or Viet Nam[n 3] (commonly abbreviated VN; Vietnamese: Vi\u1ec7t Nam, [v\u00ee\u0259t n\u0101\u02d0m] (listen)), officially the Socialist Republic of Vietnam (SRV),[n 4] is a country in Southeast Asia. It is located at the eastern edge of mainland Southeast Asia, with an area of 331,212 square kilometres (127,882 sq mi) and population of 99 million, making it the world's fifteenth-most populous country. Vietnam borders China to the north, and Laos and Cambodia to the west. It shares maritime borders with Thailand through the Gulf of Thailand, and the Philippines, Indonesia, and Malaysia through the South China Sea. Its capital is Hanoi and its largest city is Ho Chi Minh City (commonly referred to by its former name, Saigon).\n Question: Given this information about Vietnam, which country does it share its northern border with?", "output": "China"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Farhad Moshiri (born 1963 in Shiraz) is an Iranian artist currently based in Tehran. His art work is rooted in Pop art dialect with a subtle, subversive socio-political commentary.\n\nBiography\nMoshiri studied fine arts at California Institute of the Arts in Valencia, California, in the 1980s, where he first started experimenting with installations, video art and painting. He received his MFA from California Institute of the Arts in 1984, before moving back to Tehran in 1991. He subsequently became well known for his ironic interpretations of hybrids between traditional Iranian forms and those of the consumerist and globalized popular culture widespread in his country.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Moshiri was most readily associated with his paintings of jars, which are decorated with traditional Iranian sayings and poetic verse, written in Persian calligraphy. These monumental containers have been described as receptacles of life, memory and desire, and reflect his fascination with archaeology.\n\nHis painted jars, which form a trademark of his production, look like three-dimensional objects, bursting with popular foods, drinks and desserts, with popular scripts elegantly written on their body. Other significant works include Stereo Surround Sofa (2004), Silver Portrait on Red (2004), Diamond Brain (2004-5) and A Dream in Tehran (2007).\n\nMoshiri is also interested in the repetition of numbers and letters in scripts for their intrinsic beauty as opposed to any literal meaning or sense they might hold\n\nIn Kennedy\u2019s Salt and Pepper Shaker, from 2005, he presents the instantly recognizable Kennedy couple in the form of salt and pepper shakers.\n\nHis work is held in several public collections, including the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond, the Farjam Collection, Dubai, and the British Museum, London.\n\nHe is represented by The Third Line gallery in Dubai, Galerie Emmanuel Perrotin in Paris, New York, Tokyo and Hong Kong, Rodolphe Janssen in Brussels, and Thaddeus Ropac in Salzburg and London\n Question: Given a reference text about Farhad Moshiri, what do his painted jars look like?", "output": "Farhad Moshiri's painted jars look like three-dimensional objects bursting with popular drinks, foods, and desserts."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The relative size of a Foley catheter is described using French units (F). Alternatively, the size of a 10 F catheter might be expressed as 10 Ch (Charriere units \u2013 named after a 19th century French scientific instrument maker, Joseph-Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric-Beno\u00eet Charri\u00e8re). The most common sizes are 10 F to 28 F. 1 F is equivalent to 0.33 mm = .013\" = 1/77\" of diameter. Foley catheters are usually color coded by size with a solid color band at the external end of the balloon inflation tube, allowing for easy identification of the size. Note: Colors for French sizes 5, 6, 8, 10 may vary significantly if intended for pediatric patients. Color for French size 26 may also be pink instead of black.\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foley_catheter\n Question: Based on this paragraph, what is the diameter of a 10 F Foley catheter in mm?", "output": "According to this paragraph, the diameter of a 1 F catheter is 1/77mm so the diameter of a 10 F catheter is 10/77mm."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Veganism is the practice of abstaining from the use of animal product\u2014particularly in diet\u2014and an associated philosophy that rejects the commodity status of animals. An individual who follows the diet or philosophy is known as a vegan.\n Question: What is the definition of Vegan?", "output": "Veganism is the practice of abstaining from the use of animal product"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Rockhopper Exploration PLC is an oil and gas exploration company headquartered in Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom. It owns offshore exploration and production licences in the North Falkland Basin in the waters north of the Falkland Islands.\n\nRockhopper is listed on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange.\n Question: What's Rockhopper Exploration PLC business?", "output": "Rockhopper Exploration PLC is in the oil and gas business, headquartered in Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The idea of hard magic and soft magic was popularized by Sanderson for world building and creating magic systems in fictional settings. The terminology of hard and soft originate from hard and soft sciences, which lends itself towards hard science fiction and soft science fiction. Both terms are approximate ways of characterizing two ends of a spectrum. Hard magic systems follow specific rules, the magic is controlled and explained to the reader in the narrative detailing the mechanics behind the way the magic 'works' and can be used for building settings that revolve around the magic system. Soft magic systems may not have clearly defined rules or limitations, or they may provide limited exposition regarding their workings. They are used to create a sense of wonder to the reader.\n Question: According to Sanderson's Law of Magic, what is the difference between hard and soft magic?", "output": "Hard magic is always strictly constrained by a set of rules which can simulate a more ordered world to the reader, while soft magic if more flexible, has no clearly defined limitations and can be used to imbue a sense of wonder to the reader."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cisco Systems, Inc., commonly known as Cisco, is an American-based multinational digital communications technology conglomerate corporation headquartered in San Jose, California. Cisco develops, manufactures, and sells networking hardware, software, telecommunications equipment and other high-technology services and products. Cisco specializes in specific tech markets, such as the Internet of Things (IoT), domain security, videoconferencing, and energy management with leading products including Webex, OpenDNS, Jabber, Duo Security, and Jasper. Cisco is one of the largest technology companies in the world ranking 74 on the Fortune 100 with over $51 billion in revenue and nearly 80,000 employees.\n Question: What is Cisco's formal company name, where is their headquarters, and how many employees are there in the company?", "output": "Cisco Systems, Inc. is located in San Jose, California and has nearly 80,000 employees."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific tasks.\n\nProperties\nThough the term large language model has no formal definition, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more. LLMs are general purpose models which excel at a wide range of tasks, as opposed to being trained for one specific task (such as sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or mathematical reasoning). The skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable, seems to be a function of the amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design.\n\nThough trained on simple tasks along the lines of predicting the next word in a sentence, neural language models with sufficient training and parameter counts are found to capture much of the syntax and semantics of human language. In addition, large language models demonstrate considerable general knowledge about the world, and are able to \"memorize\" a great quantity of facts during training.\n\nHallucinations\nMain article: Hallucination (artificial intelligence)\nIn artificial intelligence in general, and in large language models in particular, a \"hallucination\" is a confident response that does not seem to be justified by the model's training data.\n\nEmergent abilities\n\nOn a number of natural language benchmarks involving tasks such as question answering, models perform no better than random chance until they reach a certain scale (in this case, measured by training computation), at which point their performance sharply increases. These are examples of emergent abilities.\nUnpredictable abilities that have been observed in large language models but that were not present in simpler models (and that were not explicitly designed into the model) are usually called \"emergent abilities\". Researchers note that such abilities \"cannot be predicted simply by extrapolating the performance of smaller models\". These abilities are discovered rather than programmed-in or designed, in some cases only after the LLM has been publicly deployed. Hundreds of emergent abilities have been described. Examples include multi-step arithmetic, taking college-level exams, identifying the intended meaning of a word, chain-of-thought prompting, decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet, unscrambling a word\u2019s letters, identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs.\n\nArchitecture and training\nLarge language models have most commonly used the transformer architecture, which, since 2018, has become the standard deep learning technique for sequential data (previously, recurrent architectures such as the LSTM were most common). LLMs are trained in an unsupervised manner on unannotated text. A left-to-right transformer is trained to maximize the probability assigned to the next word in the training data, given the previous context. Alternatively, an LLM may use a bidirectional transformer (as in the example of BERT), which assigns a probability distribution over words given access to both preceding and following context. In addition to the task of predicting the next word or \"filling in the blanks\", LLMs may be trained on auxiliary tasks which test their understanding of the data distribution such as Next Sentence Prediction (NSP), in which pairs of sentences are presented and the model must predict whether they appear side-by-side in the training corpus.\n\nThe earliest LLMs were trained on corpora having on the order of billions of words. The first model in OpenAI's GPT series was trained in 2018 on BookCorpus, consisting of 985 million words. In the same year, BERT was trained on a combination of BookCorpus and English Wikipedia, totalling 3.3 billion words. In the years since then, training corpora for LLMs have increased by orders of magnitude, reaching up to hundreds of billions or trillions of tokens.\n\nLLMs are computationally expensive to train. A 2020 study estimated the cost of training a 1.5 billion parameter model (1-2 orders of magnitude smaller than the state of the art at the time) at $1.6 million.\n\nA 2020 analysis found that neural language models' capability (as measured by training loss) increased smoothly in a power law relationship with number of parameters, quantity of training data, and computation used for training. These relationships were tested over a wide range of values (up to seven orders of magnitude) and no attenuation of the relationship was observed at the highest end of the range (including for network sizes up to trillions of parameters).\n\nApplication to downstream tasks\nBetween 2018 and 2020, the standard method for harnessing an LLM for a specific natural language processing (NLP) task was to fine tune the model with additional task-specific training. It has subsequently been found that more powerful LLMs such as GPT-3 can solve tasks without additional training via \"prompting\" techniques, in which the problem to be solved is presented to the model as a text prompt, possibly with some textual examples of similar problems and their solutions.\n\nFine-tuning\nMain article: Fine-tuning (machine learning)\nFine-tuning is the practice of modifying an existing pretrained language model by training it (in a supervised fashion) on a specific task (e.g. sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or part-of-speech tagging). It is a form of transfer learning. It generally involves the introduction of a new set of weights connecting the final layer of the language model to the output of the downstream task. The original weights of the language model may be \"frozen\", such that only the new layer of weights connecting them to the output are learned during training. Alternatively, the original weights may receive small updates (possibly with earlier layers frozen).\n\nPrompting\nSee also: Prompt engineering and Few-shot learning (natural language processing)\nIn the prompting paradigm, popularized by GPT-3, the problem to be solved is formulated via a text prompt, which the model must solve by providing a completion (via inference). In \"few-shot prompting\", the prompt includes a small number of examples of similar (problem, solution) pairs. For example, a sentiment analysis task of labelling the sentiment of a movie review could be prompted as follows:\n\nReview: This movie stinks.\nSentiment: negative\n\nReview: This movie is fantastic!\nSentiment:\n\nIf the model outputs \"positive\", then it has correctly solved the task. In zero-shot prompting, no solve examples are provided. An example of a zero-shot prompt for the same sentiment analysis task would be \"The sentiment associated with the movie review 'This movie is fantastic!' is\".\n\nFew-shot performance of LLMs has been shown to achieve competitive results on NLP tasks, sometimes surpassing prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Examples of such NLP tasks are translation, question answering, cloze tasks, unscrambling words, and using a novel word in a sentence. The creation and optimisation of such prompts is called prompt engineering.\n\nInstruction tuning\nInstruction tuning is a form of fine-tuning designed to facilitate more natural and accurate zero-shot prompting interactions. Given a text input, a pretrained language model will generate a completion which matches the distribution of text on which it was trained. A naive language model given the prompt \"Write an essay about the main themes of Hamlet.\" might provide a completion such as \"A late penalty of 10% per day will be applied to submissions received after March 17.\" In instruction tuning, the language model is trained on many examples of tasks formulated as natural language instructions, along with appropriate responses. Various techniques for instruction tuning have been applied in practice. OpenAI's InstructGPT protocol involves supervised fine-tuning on a dataset of human-generated (prompt, response) pairs, followed by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), in which a reward function was learned based on a dataset of human preferences. Another technique, \"self-instruct\", fine-tunes the language model on a training set of examples which are themselves generated by an LLM (bootstrapped from a small initial set of human-generated examples).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Large language models, what corpus was the first model in OpenAI's GPT series trained in 2018 on?", "output": "BookCorpus."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Salmon are typically anadromous: they hatch in the gravel beds of shallow fresh water streams, migrate to the ocean as adults and live like sea fish, then return to fresh water to reproduce. However, populations of several species are restricted to fresh water throughout their lives. Folklore has it that the fish return to the exact spot where they hatched to spawn, and tracking studies have shown this to be mostly true. A portion of a returning salmon run may stray and spawn in different freshwater systems; the percent of straying depends on the species of salmon. Homing behavior has been shown to depend on olfactory memory.\n Question: Given this paragraph about salmon, give me an overview of their lifecycle.", "output": "Salmon hatch in fresh water streams, migrate to the ocean as adults, then return to fresh water to reproduce."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Several efficient algorithms for simple random sampling have been developed. A naive algorithm is the draw-by-draw algorithm where at each step we remove the item at that step from the set with equal probability and put the item in the sample. We continue until we have sample of desired size \n\ufffd\nk. The drawback of this method is that it requires random access in the set.\n\nThe selection-rejection algorithm developed by Fan et al. in 1962 requires a single pass over data; however, it is a sequential algorithm and requires knowledge of total count of items \n\ufffd\nn, which is not available in streaming scenarios.\n\nA very simple random sort algorithm was proved by Sunter in 1977. The algorithm simply assigns a random number drawn from uniform distribution \n(\n0\n,\n1\n)\n(0,1) as a key to each item, then sorts all items using the key and selects the smallest \n\ufffd\nk items.\n\nJ. Vitter in 1985 proposed reservoir sampling algorithms, which are widely used. This algorithm does not require knowledge of the size of the population \n\ufffd\nn in advance, and uses constant space.\n\nRandom sampling can also be accelerated by sampling from the distribution of gaps between samples and skipping over the gaps.\n Question: What is disadvantage of naive algorithm of simple random sampling?", "output": "The drawback of this method is that it requires random access in the set."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sensory integration difficulties or sensory processing disorder (SPD) are characterized by persistent challenges with neurological processing of sensory stimuli that interfere with a person's ability to participate in everyday life. Such challenges can appear in one or several sensory systems of the somatosensory system, vestibular system, proprioceptive system, interoceptive system, auditory system, visual system, olfactory system, and gustatory system.\nWhile many people can present one or two symptoms, sensory processing disorder has to have a clear functional impact on the person's life:\nSigns of over-responsivity, including, for example, dislike of textures such as those found in fabrics, foods, grooming products or other materials found in daily living, to which most people would not react, and serious discomfort, sickness or threat induced by normal sounds, lights, ambient temperature, movements, smells, tastes, or even inner sensations such as heartbeat.Signs of under-responsivity, including sluggishness and lack of responsiveness.\nSensory cravings, including, for example, fidgeting, impulsiveness, and/or seeking or making loud, disturbing noises; and sensorimotor-based problems, including slow and uncoordinated movements or poor handwriting.\nSensory discrimination problems, which might manifest themselves in behaviors such as things constantly dropped.\nSymptoms may vary according to the disorder's type and subtype present.\nSensory integration and processing difficulties can be a feature of a number of disorders, including anxiety problems, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD),food intolerances, behavioural disorders, and particularly, autism spectrum disorders. This pattern of comorbidities poses a significant challenge to those who claim that SPD is an identifiably specific disorder, rather than simply a term given to a set of symptoms common to other disorders.\nTwo studies have provided preliminary evidence suggesting that there may be measurable neurological differences between children diagnosed with SPD and control children classified as neurotypical or children diagnosed with autism. Despite this evidence, that SPD researchers have yet to agree on a proven, standardized diagnostic tool undermines researchers' ability to define the boundaries of the disorder and makes correlational studies, like those on structural brain abnormalities, less convincing.\n Question: What are the signs and symptoms of Sensory processing disorder?", "output": "While many people with Sensory processing disorder can present one or two symptoms, it has to have a clear functional impact on the person's life:\nSigns of over-responsivity, including, for example, dislike of textures such as those found in fabrics, foods, grooming products or other materials found in daily living, to which most people would not react, and serious discomfort, sickness or threat induced by normal sounds, lights, ambient temperature, movements, smells, tastes, or even inner sensations such as heartbeat.Signs of under-responsivity, including sluggishness and lack of responsiveness.\nSensory cravings, including, for example, fidgeting, impulsiveness, and/or seeking or making loud, disturbing noises; and sensorimotor-based problems, including slow and uncoordinated movements or poor handwriting."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Some types of oysters are commonly consumed (cooked or raw), and in some locales are regarded as a delicacy. Some types of pearl oysters are harvested for the pearl produced within the mantle. Windowpane oysters are harvested for their translucent shells, which are used to make various kinds of decorative objects.\n Question: Who wrote the book that the TV show Shantaram is based on?", "output": "Gregory David Roberts wrote the novel Shantaram."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Most water vapors found mostly in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff into the sea, about 47 Tt per year whilst evaporation and transpiration happening in land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, has several forms: most commonly rain, snow, and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small drops of water that are condensed when a high density of water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is the lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface starts to increase. Condensed water in the air may also refract sunlight to produce rainbows.\n Question: Given the following paragraph on the water cycle, what forms of precipitation do exist?", "output": "Water can precipitate in the form of rain, snow, and hail as well as in the form of fog and dew. Rain is the most common form of precipitation."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Poison Book Project is a project of the Winterthur Museum, Garden and Library and the University of Delaware to identify and catalog books known to contain poisonous substances, particularly arsenic in Paris green pigments. It was started in 2019 when Winterthur staff members Melissa Tedone and Rosie Grayburn identified a book containing Paris green in the institution's collection. The project has since confirmed at least 100 other books from libraries across the world that contain Paris green, allowing librarians to take measures to minimize the risk to those handling the books.\n Question: Given this paragraph about books, what is the Poison Book Project?", "output": "The Poison Book Project is a project of the Winterthur Museum, Garden and Library and the University of Delaware to identify and catalog books known to contain poisonous substances, particularly arsenic in Paris green pigments."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wang Labs was one of a large number of New England-based computer companies that faltered in the late 1980s and 1990s, marking the end of the Massachusetts Miracle. For instance, the struggling Digital Equipment Corporation also downsized in the 1990s and was acquired by Compaq.\n\nA common view within the PC community is that Wang Labs failed because it specialized in computers designed specifically for word processing and did not foresee and could not compete with general-purpose personal computers with word-processing software in the 1980s. Word processing was not actually the mainstay of Wang's business by the time desktop computers began to gain in popularity. Although Wang manufactured desktops, its main business by the 1980s was its VS line of minicomputer and \"midframe\" systems. The market for these minicomputers was conquered by enhanced microcomputers like the Apple Macintosh and the Wintel PC and Sun, IBM, and Hewlett-Packard servers.\n\nAn Wang's insistence that his son, Fred Wang, succeed him contributed to the company's failure. Fred Wang was a business school graduate, \"but by almost any definition\", wrote Charles C. Kenney, \"unsuited for the job in which his father had placed him.\" His assignment, first as head of research and development, then as president of the company, led to resignations by key R&D and business personnel. Amid declining revenues, John F. Cunningham, an 18-year employee of the firm, resigned as president and COO of Wang Labs to become chairman and chief executive of Computer Consoles Inc. Cunningham resigned due to disagreement with An Wang on how to pull the company out of the slump, as well as being upset that Fred Wang was positioned, nepotistically, as An Wang's successor.\n\nOne turning point occurred when Fred Wang was head of R&D. On October 4, 1983, Wang Laboratories announced fourteen major hardware and software products and promised dates of delivery. The announcement was well received, but even at the time, there were warning signs. According to Datamation, Wang announced \"everything but the kitchen sink. And if you could attach the kitchen sink to a personal computer, they would announce that too.\" Very few of the products were close to completion, and many of them had not even been started. All were delivered late, if at all. In retrospect, this was referred to as the \"vaporware announcement,\" and it hurt the credibility of Fred Wang and Wang Laboratories.\n\nIn 1986, Fred Wang, then 36 years old, was installed as president of Wang Laboratories. However, the company's fortunes continued to decline. Unlike most computer companies that funded their growth by issuing stock, An Wang had used debt to avoid further dilution of family control of the company. By August 1989, that debt was causing conflicts with its creditors. On August 4, 1989, An Wang fired his son. Richard W. Miller, who had been with the company since 1988, replaced him as the president of Wang Laboratories.\n\nMiller announced in December 1989 that the company would start to embrace established software standards rather than use traditional proprietary designs. An Wang died in March 1990, and Miller took on the additional posts of chairman and CEO. The company underwent massive restructuring and eliminated its bank debt in August 1990, but it still ended the year with a record net loss.\n\nIn November 1990, Wang announced their first personal computers running Unix. In 1987, Wang developed a new typesetting system in conjunction with Arlington, MA-based Texet Corp. The system used Xerox printers and UNIX workstations from Sun, but the product vanished before coming to market, because few Wang employees could use or support UNIX. UNIX ran on the VS \u2013 Interactive Systems first ported IN/ix (their IBM 360 version of SYS5 UNIX) to run in a VSOS Virtual machine circa 1985, and then Wang engineers completed the port so that it ran \"native\" on the VS hardware soon thereafter \u2013 but performance was always sub-par as UNIX was never a good fit for the batch-mode nature of the VS hardware, and the line-at-a-time processing approach taken by the VS workstations; indeed, the workstation code had to be rewritten to bundle up each keystroke into a frame to be sent back to the host when running UNIX so that \"tty\" style processing could be implemented. PACE, which offered its data dictionary, excellent referential integrity, and speedy application development, was in the process of being ported to UNIX under the name OPEN Pace. A client-server RDBMS model built on the original product's ideology, OPEN Pace was demonstrated at the North American PACE User Group Conferences in both Boston and Chicago. OPEN Pace, along with a new Windows-based word processor called UpWord (which was at the time considered a strong contender to retake Wang's original market leadership from Microsoft), were touted as their new direction. However, after a marketing study[citation needed] suggested that it would require large capital investments in order to be viable competitors against Microsoft, both products were abandoned.\n\nIra Magaziner, who was brought in by Miller in 1990, proposed to take Wang out of the manufacture of computers altogether, and to go big into imaging software instead. In March 1991, the company introduced its Office 2000 marketing strategy, focusing on office productivity.\n\nIn June 1991, Wang started reselling IBM computers, in exchange for IBM investing in Wang stock. Wang hardware strategy to re-sell IBM RS/6000s also included further pursuit of UNIX software.\n\nIn August 1991, Wang won a suit against NEC and Toshiba claiming violation of Wang's patents on single in-line memory modules (SIMMs). The company still recorded a net loss for the 1991 fiscal year.\n\nWang Laboratories filed for bankruptcy protection on August 18, 1992, at a time when the company's attempted concession from proprietary to open systems was deemed by some analysts as \"too little and too late\n Question: What is the story of the decline of Wang Computer?", "output": "Founder An Wang forced his experienced son Fred Wang was going to lead the company after his death."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: On 13 March 2023, the series was won by Kai Fagan and Sanam Harrinanan with 43.75% of the final vote, becoming the first couple formed during the Casa Amor twist to win the series. Lana Jenkins and Ron Hall finished as runners-up.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Love Island UK Season 9, Kai Fagan and Sanam Harrinanan won the final vote by what percent?", "output": "43.75%"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Neonatology is a subspecialty of pediatrics that consists of the medical care of newborn infants, especially the ill or premature newborn. It is a hospital-based specialty, and is usually practiced in neonatal intensive care units (NICUs). The principal patients of neonatologists are newborn infants who are ill or require special medical care due to prematurity, low birth weight, intrauterine growth restriction, congenital malformations (birth defects), sepsis, pulmonary hypoplasia or birth asphyxia.\n Question: Given this reference text about Neonatology, tell me which specialty it is related to, and where it is typically practiced.", "output": "Neonatology is a subspecialty of pediatrics, which is typically practiced in a hospital's Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, often referred to as a NICU."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (27 January 1756 \u2013 5 December 1791) was a prolific and influential composer of the Classical period. Despite his short life, his rapid pace of composition resulted in more than 800 works of virtually every genre of his time. Many of these compositions are acknowledged as pinnacles of the symphonic, concertante, chamber, operatic, and choral repertoire. Mozart is widely regarded as among the greatest composers in the history of Western music, with his music admired for its \"melodic beauty, its formal elegance and its richness of harmony and texture\".\n Question: What is Mozart\u2019s contribution to the music?", "output": "Mozart contributed more than 800 pieces of music that are known for melodic beauty, elegance and richness."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Emancipation Proclamation, officially Proclamation 95, was a presidential proclamation and executive order issued by United States President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, during the Civil War. The Proclamation changed the legal status of more than 3.5 million enslaved African Americans in the secessionist Confederate states from enslaved to free. As soon as slaves escaped the control of their enslavers, either by fleeing to Union lines or through the advance of federal troops, they were permanently free. In addition, the Proclamation allowed for former slaves to \"be received into the armed service of the United States\".\n Question: Given the reference text about the Emancipation Proclamation, approximately how many enslaved African Americans were freed?", "output": "Approximately 3.5 million enslaved African Americans were freed by the Emancipation Proclamation."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Laskowice [lask\u0254\u02c8vit\u0361s\u025b] (also known as Laskowice Pomorskie; German: Laskowitz) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Je\u017cewo, within \u015awiecie County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland. It lies approximately 5 kilometres (3 mi) south-west of Je\u017cewo, 8 km (5 mi) north of \u015awiecie, 51 km (32 mi) north-east of Bydgoszcz, and 52 km (32 mi) north of Toru\u0144.\n\nThe village has a population of 2,500. It is a major rail junction, where the Bydgoszcz-Gdynia line merges with the connection to Warsaw, via Grudzi\u0105dz.\n Question: Where is Laskowice?", "output": "Laskowice is a village in north-central Poland"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Casting took place virtually through Zoom due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Casting director Victoria Thomas wanted to honor the game without being limited by it. Mazin and Thomas sought high-profile guest stars; Thomas said many of the actors \"don't usually do one-episode guest spots\". On February 10, 2021, Pascal and Ramsey were cast as Joel and Ellie. Earlier that day, it was reported Mahershala Ali was offered the role of Joel after Matthew McConaughey turned it down; The Hollywood Reporter noted Ali \"did circle a role\" in the show, but a deal was never formed. Any actresses considered for Ellie for the canceled film adaptation\u2014such as Maisie Williams and Kaitlyn Dever\u2014had aged out of consideration by the time the series was in production, resulting in a reset of candidates. The producers primarily sought actors who could embody Joel and Ellie individually as well as imitate their relationship.:\u200a14:42\u200a Though both were previously featured on HBO's Game of Thrones, Pascal and Ramsey had not met before the filming of The Last of Us began but found they had instant chemistry, which developed over the course of production.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Last of Us TV Series, who was not cast in the show?", "output": "Matthew McConaughey turned down the role of Joel which was also reportedly offered to and turned down by Mahershala Ali afterwards. Maisie Williams and Kaitlyn Dever were considered for the role of Ellie but aged out of consideration by the time of production."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"House of Love\" is a song by Australian duo Vika and Linda. It was released as the second single from her debut studio album Vika and Linda (1994). It peaked at number 98 in Australia and 32 in New Zealand.\n Question: Who wrote the song House of Love", "output": "House of Love is a song by Australian duo Vika and Linda. It was released as the second single from her debut studio album Vika and Linda (1994). It peaked at number 98 in Australia and 32 in New Zealand."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tujhse He Raabta is a 2015 Pakistani television film directed by Nivdeita Basu and written by Moomal Shunaid. This television film was produced by Saurabh Pandey and co-produced by Yasir Shah under the banner of White Light Army Pictures. It was first aired on Geo Television on 15 February 2015 at 7:00 p.m. in Pakistan.\n\nIt features Sara Khan as the lead role in this television film. She rose to fame with her appearance in the Indian soap \u201cBidaai\u201d while her co-lead, Yasir Shah, is a Pakistani actor, producer, screenwriter and model who started his acting career in India. The special feature of this telefilm is the high-red production camera due to which it has feature film quality.\n Question: Given a reference text about Tujhse He Raabta, tell me who played the main role in the film.", "output": "Sara Khan played the lead role in the film Tujhse He Raabta."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 1991 Youngstown State Penguins football team represented Youngstown State University in the 1991 NCAA Division I-AA football season. The Penguins were led by sixth-year head coach Jim Tressel and played their home games at Stambaugh Stadium. They finished the season 12\u20133. They received an at-large bid to the I-AA playoffs, where they defeated Villanova, Nevada, and Samford to advance to the National Championship Game, where they defeated Marshall. This was their first national championship in school history.\n Question: How many national championships had Youngstown State Penguins football team won prior to 1991?", "output": "None. 1991 was their first national championship in school history so there weren't any prior national championships for Youngstown State Penguins football team."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Porthcurno is largely not farms or fisherman's cottages today, having its linear centre inland, centred 6.6 miles (10.6 km) west of the railway, market and resort town of Penzance and 2.5 miles (4.0 km) from Land's End, the most westerly point of the English mainland. In the most local-level organisational and community bodies, it is in civil and ecclesiastical parishes named Saint Levan and usually spelt as St Leven since the 18th century.\n Question: Currently, does Porthcurno mainly comprise farms and fisherman's cottages?", "output": "No"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The golden-green woodpecker (Piculus chrysochloros) is a species of bird in subfamily Picinae of the woodpecker family Picidae. It is found in Panama and every mainland South American country except Chile and Uruguay.\n\nThe golden-green woodpecker is 18 to 27 cm (7.1 to 11 in) long and weighs 55 to 91 g (1.9 to 3.2 oz). Males and females have the same plumage except on their heads. Males of the nominate subspecies P. c. chrysochloros are red from forehead to nape, have olive green from the lores around the eye and onto the side of the neck, and successively a pale yellow stripe, a short red malar band, and an olive green stripe below that area. Their chin and upper throat are yellow. The nominate female has no red on its head; its forehead to nape are olive and it has an olive-brown malar area. Nominate adults have olive green upperparts. Their flight feathers are darker olive-brown and their tail dark olive-brown. Their underparts are pale yellow-buff with olive-brown bars. Their longtish beak is dark gray to blackish with a paler base, their iris white to bluish white, and the legs grayish green. Juveniles are generally duller than adults and have less well defined barring on their underparts.\n\nSubspecies P. c. xanthochlorus is smaller and brighter yellow than the nominate, and the female has a yellow crown. P. c. capistratus is very large and a darker olive green above than the nominate, and has less red in the malar area, a barred throat, and greenish white instead of yellow buff on their underparts. P. c. paraensis is intermediate in size. Its cheek stripe, throat, and underparts' base color are cinnamon-buff. Males have a green, not red, malar, and females have a greenish yellow crown. P. c. laemostictus is large and rather dark, with a plain whitish throat. P. c. polyzonus is also large, with a pale yellow cheek stripe and throat and a yellow base color on the underparts\n Question: Given a reference text about the golden-green woodpecker, tell be how big they are.", "output": "The golden-green woodpecker weighs between 55 and 91 grams and is between 18 and 27 centimeters long."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In Seattle, Jackson worked as an ad executive at a magazine and did some theater work on the side, earning his Equity card. \"As soon as I found out what theater was, what Broadway was, I thought, 'Oh, that's what I'll do with my life.' Just a matter of getting all the pieces in place\", he said. Inspired to rethink his career after the September 11 attacks, he moved to New York City to pursue his dream of being an actor: \"[Acting] was something I always wanted to do but I was too scared and didn't have the confidence. 9/11 changed everything for all of us. It gave me the urgency.\"\n Question: Where did Jackson move to become an actor?", "output": "New York City"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Train services\nRoute\tService type\tOperator\tNotes\nZwolle \u2013 Meppel \u2013 Groningen\tLocal (\"Sprinters\")\tNS\t2x per hour \u2013 On Sundays, this train operates 1x per hour until 15:00, then 2x per hour after\nLeeuwarden \u2013 Heerenveen \u2013 Meppel \u2013 Zwolle \u2013 Amersfoort \u2013 Utrecht \u2013 Gouda \u2013 Rotterdam\tExpress (\"Intercity\")\tNS\t1x per hour\nLeeuwarden \u2013 Heerenveen \u2013 Meppel \u2013 Zwolle \u2013 Lelystad \u2013 Almere \u2013 Amsterdam \u2013 Schiphol \u2013 Leiden \u2013 Den Haag\tExpress (\"Intercity\")\tNS\t1x per hour\nLeeuwarden \u2013 Heerenveen \u2013 Meppel\tLocal (\"Sprinter\")\tNS\t2x per hour \u2013 1x per hour after 20:00 and on weekends\n Question: Given this table of train services, how many trains are there between Leeuwarden and Zwolle per day? Explain your math.", "output": "There are 48 trains between Leeuwarden and Zwolle per day. The trains from Leeuwarden to Rotterdam travel once an hour, and the trains from Leeuwarden to Den Haag travel once an hour. Since there are 24 hours in a day, and two routes, the total number of daily trains between Leeuwarden and Zwolle per day is 48. If the train service shuts down at night, as is common, there may be fewer than 48 trains between Leeuwarden and Zwolle per day. However, that information is not included in the provided table."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Clarence Albert Pierce, Jr. (born October 1, 1928) is an American politician in the state of Mississippi. He served in the Mississippi House of Representatives from 1952 to 1984. He was a teacher and farmer. He attended the University of Mississippi, graduating in 1950. Pierce served as an assistant to Senator James Eastland when the Mississippi House was not in session.\n Question: Clarence Albert Pierce, Jr., tell me where he was born and what college he went attended.", "output": "Clarence Albert Pierce, Jr. was born on October 1, 1928 and attended the University of Mississippi."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Water resources are natural resources of water that are potentially useful for humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as both \"stocks\" and \"flows\". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biota. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored over thousands of years but lake volumes may fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet ones. A substantial fraction of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decrease. By some estimates, as much as 30 percent of total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable withdrawals of groundwater, causing groundwater depletion.\n Question: Given the following paragraph on water resources, in what percentage is freshwater stored in the different storage forms?", "output": "It is estimated that 69 percent of freshwater is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover, 30 percent in groundwater, and the remaining 1 percent is stored in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biota."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 2015 UEFA Super Cup was a football match between Spanish teams Barcelona and Sevilla on 11 August 2015 at the Boris Paichadze Dinamo Arena in Tbilisi, Georgia. It was the 40th UEFA Super Cup, an annual tournament contested by the winners of the UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League. Barcelona were appearing in the Super Cup for the ninth time, they had previously won and lost the competition four times each. Sevilla were appearing in the competition for the fourth time, they had won once and lost twice. The two sides had met before in the competition in 2006, when Sevilla won 3\u20130.\n\nThe teams had qualified for the competition by winning the two seasonal European competitions. Barcelona won the 2014\u201315 UEFA Champions League, defeating Italian Juventus 3\u20131 in the final. Sevilla qualified as winners of the 2014\u201315 UEFA Europa League. They beat Ukrainian team Dnipro 3\u20132 in the final.\n\nBarcelona won the game 5\u20134 after extra time to claim their fifth Super Cup title, tying Milan's record. Their ninth Super Cup appearance was also a record, two ahead of Milan. Dani Alves's fourth Super Cup win and fifth appearance matched Paolo Maldini's records, while Luis Enrique became the fourth man to lift the UEFA Super Cup as coach and player after Pep Guardiola, Carlo Ancelotti and Diego Simeone. The nine goals scored was also the most in any Super Cup fixture, and the attendance of 51,940 was a record for a one-off, neutral venue UEFA Super Cup.\n Question: Given a reference text about the 2015 UEFA Super Cup, tell me who played in the game, who won, and the score.", "output": "Barcelona played Sevilla in the 2015 UEFA Super Cup. Barcelona won 5-4 after extra time."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Before Morning is a 1933 American pre-Code crime drama directed by Arthur Hoerl, and starring Leo Carrillo, Lora Baxter, and Taylor Holmes. The film was adapted for the screen by Arthur Hoerl, from the 1933 Broadway play of the same name by Edward and Edna Riley.\n Question: Based on this paragraph, who directed \"Before Morning?\"", "output": "Arthur Hoerl"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cambridge Zero is Cambridge University's response to climate change. Led by Dr Emily Shuckburgh OBE, a climate scientist, mathematician and science communicator, it is an interdisciplinary and collaborative initiative created \"to harness the full range of the University\u2019s research and policy expertise, developing solutions that work for our lives, our society and our economy\".\n\nShuckburgh stresses that Cambridge Zero will not work in isolation and that the climate crisis demands a holistic response: \"There is a really urgent need for, frankly, an immediate response on a scale that is utterly unprecedented and does require the whole of our economy and the whole of society. It's about all of us contributing in the way we live our lives\".\n\nCambridge Zero was first announced by Cambridge Vice-Chancellor Stephen Toope in his annual address in October 2019.\n\nElectric flight is one of several engineering areas covered but Shuckburgh emphasizes the need for the broadest range of skills to support Cambridge Zero's output. She says, \u201cI started being involved in climate-related research right at the start of it becoming an international political topic, and it\u2019s been a convergence of different interests.\u201d\n\nCambridge Zero represents the University of Cambridge in the COP26 Universities Network  and is a facilitator of COP26's \"Visions for a Net Zero Future\" initiative.\n Question: Who leads the Cambridge Zero initiative?", "output": "The Cambridge Zero is initiative is led by Dr. Emily Shuckburgh, she is a climate scientist, mathematician, and science communicator."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hibiki (Japanese: \u97ff) (meaning \"resonance\" or \"echo\") is a premium blended whisky produced in Japan by Beam Suntory (a subsidiary of Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd, which itself is a subsidiary of Suntory Holdings of Osaka, Japan). It has won several awards.\n Question: Which company produces Hibiki Whisky?", "output": "Hibiki Whisky is a premium blended whisky produced in Japan by Beam Suntory, a subsidiary of Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd / Suntory Holdings of Osaka, Japan."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Santa Barbara is a coastal city in Santa Barbara County, California, of which it is also the county seat. Situated on a south-facing section of coastline, the longest such section on the West Coast of the United States, the city lies between the steeply rising Santa Ynez Mountains and the Pacific Ocean. Santa Barbara's climate is often described as Mediterranean, and the city has been dubbed \"The American Riviera\".\n Question: Given this paragraph, can you tell me why Santa Barbara is referred to as The American Riviera?", "output": "Santa Barbara is referred to as The American Riviera because of it's temperate climate and south-facing orientation to the coastline."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Francoist Spain (Spanish: Espa\u00f1a franquista), or the Francoist dictatorship (dictadura franquista), was the period of Spanish history between 1939 and 1975, when Francisco Franco ruled Spain after the Spanish Civil War with the title Caudillo. After his death in 1975, Spain transitioned into a democracy. During this time period, Spain was officially known as the Spanish State (Estado Espa\u00f1ol).\n\nThe nature of the regime evolved and changed during its existence. Months after the start of the Spanish Civil War in July 1936, Franco emerged as the dominant rebel military leader and was proclaimed head of state on 1 October 1936, ruling a dictatorship over the territory controlled by the Nationalist faction. The 1937 Unification Decree, which merged all parties supporting the rebel side, led to Nationalist Spain becoming a single-party regime under the FET y de las JONS. The end of the war in 1939 brought the extension of the Franco rule to the whole country and the exile of Republican institutions. The Francoist dictatorship originally took a form described as \"fascistized dictatorship\", or \"semi-fascist regime\", showing clear influence of fascism in fields such as labor relations, the autarkic economic policy, aesthetics, and the single-party system. As time went on, the regime opened up and became closer to developmental dictatorships, although it always preserved residual fascist elements.\n Question: Given a reference text about Francoist Spain, when did Franco rule Spain and when did he die?", "output": "Francisco Franco ruled Spain from 1935 until he died in 1975."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Alliance of Bakongo (French: Alliance des Bakongo, or ABAKO) was a Congolese political party, founded by Edmond Nzeza Nlandu, but headed by Joseph Kasa-Vubu, which emerged in the late 1950s as vocal opponent of Belgian colonial rule in what today is the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Additionally, the organization served as the major ethno-religious organization for the Kongo people (also known as Bakongo) and became closely intertwined with the Kimbanguist Church which was extremely popular in the lower Congo.\n Question: Is ABAKO no longer an active political party?", "output": "Correct, The Alliance of Bakongo, or ABAKO, is no longer a political party."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Several methods exist for storing hydrogen. These include mechanical approaches such as using high pressures and low temperatures, or employing chemical compounds that release H2 upon demand. While large amounts of hydrogen are produced by various industries, it is mostly consumed at the site of production, notably for the synthesis of ammonia. For many years hydrogen has been stored as compressed gas or cryogenic liquid, and transported as such in cylinders, tubes, and cryogenic tanks for use in industry or as propellant in space programs. Interest in using hydrogen for on-board storage of energy in zero-emissions vehicles is motivating the development of new methods of storage, more adapted to this new application. The overarching challenge is the very low boiling point of H2: it boils around 20.268 K (\u2212252.882 \u00b0C or \u2212423.188 \u00b0F). Achieving such low temperatures requires expending significant energy.\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hydrogen_storage\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Hydrogen Storage, what have been the two main historical forms of storage?", "output": "For many years hydrogen has been stored as compressed gas or cryogenic liquid."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 2023 NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament involved 68 teams playing in a single-elimination tournament that determined the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I men's basketball national champion for the 2022\u201323 season. The 84th annual edition of the tournament began on March 14, 2023, and concluded with the UConn Huskies defeating the San Diego State Aztecs, 76\u201359 in the championship game on April 3 at NRG Stadium in Houston, Texas.\n Question: Which team won the 2023 NCAA Men's National Championship?", "output": "The University of Connecticut Huskies"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mao Zedong (26 December 1893 \u2013 9 September 1976), also known as Chairman Mao, was a Chinese communist revolutionary who was the founder of the People's Republic of China (PRC), which he led as the chairman of the Chinese Communist Party from the establishment of the PRC in 1949 until his death in 1976. Ideologically a Marxist\u2013Leninist, his theories, military strategies, and political policies are collectively known as Maoism.\n Question: Who is the first chairman of Chine?", "output": "Mao Zedong is the first chairman of the People's Republic of China, he is also known as Chairman Mao, was a Chinese communist revolutionary and the founder of the People's Republic of China. He served as the chairman of the Chinese Communist Party from the establishment of the PRC in 1949 until his death in 1976"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Bakersfield Majestics, formerly the Bakersfield Magic, are an American basketball team based in Bakersfield, California, and members in the minor professional The Basketball League (TBL).\n\nStarting The Franchise\nFrom 2006 to 2016, Bakersfield, California, was home to the Bakersfield Jam of the NBA Development League. The team played at Rabobank Arena until 2009 and later at the Jam Events Center. On May 9, 2014, the Jam entered a hybrid affiliation with the Phoenix Suns, giving the Suns exclusive affiliation with the team while allowing the Jam to operate under their own management. On April 12, 2016, the Suns announced that the organization had purchased the Jam and were relocating the franchise to the town of Prescott Valley, Arizona, for the 2016\u201317 season to become the Northern Arizona Suns. In response, the previous owners of the Jam franchise, Stan Ellis and David Higdon, announced that they had been working with the D-League in securing a new franchise and affiliation before the 2016\u201317 season, although it did not come to fruition.\n\nIn June 2021, it was first reported by KGET-TV that Bakersfield would host the Bakersfield Magic in The Basketball League for the 2022 season. On August 5, 2021, it was announced that Spencer Norman, previously announced as the team market owner for the Fresno Fire, would be the team market owner. Karaya Gage was initially announced as the team's first head coach, making her the first African-American woman to serve as Head Coach of a men's professional basketball team. However, after coaching the team during a pre-season exhibition against members of the Bakersfield Police Department on January 29, 2022, Gage quietly left the organization. The team then announced that Peter Pang would serve as the new Head Coach, becoming the first Chinese-American to coach a professional basketball team in the United States. Lawrence \"Doc\" Holliday was the team's initial General Manager. However, the team had announced on March 22, 2022, that Holliday had died.\n\nOn April 1, 2022, The Bakersfield Magic announced that L. Dee Slade would take over as the new General Manager of the team.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Bakersfield Majestics, where did the team play its games?", "output": "The Bakersfield Majestics played its games at Rabobank Arena until 2009 and then the Jam Events Center in Bakersfield, California."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Although Rome was successful in the first two Punic Wars, as it vied for dominance with the seafaring Punic city-state of Carthage in North Africa (now Tunisia), it suffered a number of humiliations and damaging reverses in the course of these engagements, especially at the Battle of Cannae in 216 BC. Rome nonetheless managed to win the Second Punic War thanks to Scipio Africanus in 201 BC. After its defeat, Carthage ceased to be a threat to Rome and was reduced to a small territory that was equivalent to what is now northeastern Tunisia.\n\nHowever, Cato the Censor visited Carthage in 152 BC as a member of a senatorial embassy, which was sent to arbitrate a conflict between the Punic city and Massinissa, the king of Numidia. Cato, a veteran of the Second Punic War, was shocked by Carthage's wealth, which he considered dangerous for Rome. He then relentlessly called for its destruction and ended all of his speeches with the phrase, even when the debate was on a completely different matter. The Senate refused to follow him though, especially Publius Cornelius Scipio Nasica Corculum, the son-in-law of Scipio Africanus and the most influential senator. Corculum opposed the war to preserve Roman unity and argued that the fear of a common enemy was necessary to keep the people in check. Like Cato, he ended all his speeches with the same phrase, \"Carthage must be saved\" (Carthago servanda est).\n Question: Why did Cato think that Carthage must be destroyed?", "output": "Cato felt that Carthage had bounced back too quickly from its defeats in the first two Punic wars, and would have remembered the disastrous defeat at Cannae. He thought that only completely destroying Carthage would remove it as a threat to Rome."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kang Se-jung (born January 15, 1982) is a South Korean actress. She made her entertainment debut as a singer for the K-pop girl group Papaya in 2000; the group released two albums before disbanding in 2001. Kang began acting full-time in 2004, and has appeared in television series such as Assorted Gems (2009) and Heartless City (2013). Upon turning to acting, she used the stage name Go Na-eun before reverting to use of her birth name in 2017.\n Question: What K-pop group did Kang Se-jung sing for?", "output": "Papaya"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Zangisheh (Persian: \u0632\u0646\u06af\u064a\u0634\u0647, also Romanized as Zang\u012bsheh) is a village in Qarah Su Rural District, in the Central District of Kermanshah County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 153, in 34 families.\n Question: Based on this passage, what is the average number of people per family in Zangisheh?", "output": "I can only tell you what it was in 2006, because this is when the survey data provided is from. The average number of people per family at that time is the population divided by the number of families, or 153 / 34."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: disambiguation).\nRamadan\n\u0631\u064e\u0645\u064e\u0636\u064e\u0627\u0646\nRamadan montage.jpg\nFrom top, left to right: A crescent moon over Sar\u0131\u00e7am, Turkey, marking the beginning of the Islamic month of Ramadan. Ramadan Quran reading in Bandar Torkaman, Iran. Community Iftar meal in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, Tarawah prayers in a mosque in West Sumatra, Indonesia. Foods served at a traditional Iftar meal. Ramadan decorations in Jerusalem. Zakat donation boxes in Taipei, Taiwan.\nAlso called\t\nAlbanian: Ramazani\nAzerbaijani: Ramazan\nBosnian: Ramazan\nBengali: \u09b0\u09ae\u099c\u09be\u09a8, romanized: R\u00f4mzan / R\u00f4mjan\nHindi: \u0930\u092e\u091c\u093c\u093e\u0928, romanized: Ramz\u0101n\nKurdish: \u0695\u06d5\u0645\u06d5\u0632\u0627\u0646, romanized: Remezan\nPersian: \u0631\u0645\u0636\u0627\u0646, romanized: Ramaz\u0101n\nMalay: Puasa\nPashto: \u0631\u0648\u0698\u0647, romanized: Rozha\nPunjabi: \u0631\u0645\u0636\u0627\u0646 / \u0a30\u0a2e\u0a1c\u0a3c\u0a3e\u0a28, romanized: Ramz\u0101n\nSomali: Rabadaan or Rabmadaan\nThai: \u0e40\u0e23\u0e32\u0e30\u0e21\u0e30\u0e0e\u0e2d\u0e19, romanized: Romadon\nTurkish: Ramazan\nSindhi: \u0631\u0648\u0632\u0648\nUrdu: \u0631\u0645\u0636\u0627\u0646, romanized: Ramz\u0101n\nZazaki: Remezan\nObserved by\tMuslims\nType\tReligious\nCelebrations\tCommunity iftars and Community prayers\nObservances\t\nSawm (fasting)\nZakat and sadaqah (alms giving)\nCommemorating Qadr Night\nReading the Quran\nAbstaining from all bad deeds and staying humble\nTaraweeh prayer (Sunni Muslims)\nBegins\tAt the last night of the month of Sha'ban\nEnds\tAt the last night of the month of Ramadan\nDate\tVariable (follows the Islamic lunar calendar)\n2023 date\t22 March \u2013 21 April\nFrequency\tAnnual (lunar calendar)\nRelated to\tEid al-Fitr, Qadr Night\nRamadan (Arabic: \u0631\u064e\u0645\u064e\u0636\u064e\u0627\u0646, romanized: Rama\u1e0d\u0101n [ra.ma.d\u02e4a\u02d0n]; also spelled Ramazan, Ramzan, Ramadhan or Ramathan) is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar, observed by Muslims worldwide as a month of fasting (sawm), prayer, reflection and community. A commemoration of Muhammad's first revelation, the annual observance of Ramadan is regarded as one of the Five Pillars of Islam and lasts twenty-nine to thirty days, from one sighting of the crescent moon to the next.\n\nFasting from dawn to sunset is fard (obligatory) for all adult Muslims who are not acutely or chronically ill, travelling, elderly, breastfeeding, diabetic, or menstruating. The predawn meal is referred to as suhur, and the nightly feast that breaks the fast is called iftar. Although fatwas have been issued declaring that Muslims who live in regions with a midnight sun or polar night should follow the timetable of Mecca, it is common practice to follow the timetable of the closest country in which night can be distinguished from day.\n Question: What is Ramadan?", "output": "Ramadan is the holy month of fasting observed by Muslims yearly all over the world.During this month Muslims abstain from food from dawn till dusk for 29 days. Ramadan is also one of the key pillars of Islam."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mark Arminski is an American rock concert poster artist born in 1950 in Detroit, Michigan. He began studying art at the Oakland Community College and pursued printmaking in stone lithography at the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts. Rounding out his formal education was his stay at the Dynamic Graphics Education Foundation in Peoria, Illinois, where he studied computer generated art.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Mark Arminski, why was he famous and what did he study last while still at school?", "output": "Mark Arminski is an American rock concert poster artist.  He finished his formal education studying computer generated art."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Following an agreement to merge the NFL with the rival American Football League (AFL), the Super Bowl was first held in 1967 to determine a champion between the best teams from the two leagues and has remained as the final game of each NFL season since the merger was completed in 1970\n Question: Given this paragraph about the NFL, in what year was the Super Bowl first held?", "output": "1967"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ronald Linn Rivest is a cryptographer and an Institute Professor at MIT. He is a member of MIT's Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) and a member of MIT's Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL). His work has spanned the fields of algorithms and combinatorics, cryptography, machine learning, and election integrity. Rivest is one of the inventors of the RSA algorithm (along with Adi Shamir and Len Adleman). He is the inventor of the symmetric key encryption algorithms RC2, RC4, RC5, and co-inventor of RC6. The \"RC\" stands for \"Rivest Cipher\", or alternatively, \"Ron's Code\". (RC3 was broken at RSA Security during development; similarly, RC1 was never published.) He also authored the MD2, MD4, MD5 and MD6 cryptographic hash functions.\n Question: Who is Ron Rivest?", "output": "Ron Rivest is a cryptographer and computer science professor at MIT's Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL). He is most well known as the inventor of the RSA public key cryptosystem (with Adi Shamir and Len Adleman). Rivest is also known as the inventor of the RC4 stream cipher and MD5 hash function."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Davos is an Alpine resort town and a municipality in the Praettigau/Davos Region in the canton of Graubuenden, Switzerland. It has a permanent population of 10,832 (2020). Davos is located on the river Landwasser, in the Rhaetian Alps, between the Plessur and Albula Ranges.\n\nThe municipality covers nearly the entire valley of the Landwasser, and the centre of population, economic activity, and administration is two adjacent villages: Davos Dorf (German: Davos Village) and Davos Platz (Davos Place), at 1,560 m (5,120 ft) above sea level.\n\nGaining prominence in the 19th century as a mountain health resort, Davos is perhaps best known today for hosting the World Economic Forum\u2014often referred to simply as \"Davos\"\u2014an annual meeting of global political and corporate leaders. With a long history of winter sport, Davos also has one of Switzerland's largest ski resorts, and hosts the international Spengler Cup ice hockey tournament each December.\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Davos\n Question: Is Davos worth traveling?", "output": "Davos is a very scenic town in the Swiss Alps. Famous for winter sports like skiing, cross-country skiing, sledding, ice hockey and ice skating and also for the World Economic Forum that take place annually."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: By the late 19th century, the vast grasslands of the Great Plains had been opened up for cattle ranching. This made it possible for many Americans to consume beef almost daily. The hamburger remains as one of the cheapest sources of beef in America.\n\nAdding cheese to hamburgers became popular in 1920. There are several competing claims as to who created the first cheeseburger. Lionel Sternberger is reputed to have introduced the cheeseburger in 1924 at the age of 16. He was working as a fry cook at his father's Pasadena, California sandwich shop, \"The Rite Spot\", and \"experimentally dropped a slab of American cheese on a sizzling hamburger.\" An early example of the cheeseburger appearing on a menu is a 1928 menu for the Los Angeles restaurant O'Dell's which listed a cheeseburger smothered with chili for 25 cents.\n\nOther restaurants also claim to have invented the cheeseburger. For example, Kaelin's Restaurant in Louisville, Kentucky, said it invented the cheeseburger in 1934. One year later, a trademark for the name \"cheeseburger\" was awarded to Louis Ballast of the Humpty Dumpty Drive-In in Denver, Colorado. According to Steak 'n Shake archives, the restaurant's founder, Gus Belt, applied for a trademark on the word in the 1930s.\n\nAn A&W Restaurants franchise in Lansing, Michigan is credited with inventing the bacon cheeseburger in 1963, putting it on the menu after repeated requests from the same customer.\n\nThe steamed cheeseburger, a variation almost exclusively served in central Connecticut, is believed to have been invented at a restaurant called Jack's Lunch in Middletown, Connecticut, in the 1930s.\n\nThe largest cheeseburger ever made weighed 2,014 pounds (914 kg). It is said to have included \"60 pounds (27 kg) of bacon, 50 pounds (23 kg) of lettuce, 50 pounds (23 kg) of sliced onions, 40 pounds (18 kg) of pickles, and 40 pounds (18 kg) of cheese.\" This record was set in 2012 by Minnesota's Black Bear Casino, smashing the previous record of 881 pounds (400 kg).\n\nIn the United States, National Cheeseburger Day is celebrated annually on September 18.\n Question: Given this reference text, how was the cheeseburger invented?", "output": "The cheeseburger was invented after the late 19th century after the vast grasslands of the Great Plains opened up for cattle ranching. Once this happened Americans consumed meat daily of which ground beef/hamburger meat was the most affordable.  In 1920, adding cheese to the hamburger meat popular.  It is said that Lionel Sternberger invented the cheeseburger in 1924 while working at his father's sandwich shop."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In mathematics, gradient descent (also often called steepest descent) is a first-order iterative optimization algorithm for finding a local minimum of a differentiable function. The idea is to take repeated steps in the opposite direction of the gradient (or approximate gradient) of the function at the current point, because this is the direction of steepest descent. Conversely, stepping in the direction of the gradient will lead to a local maximum of that function; the procedure is then known as gradient ascent.\n\nGradient descent is generally attributed to Augustin-Louis Cauchy, who first suggested it in 1847. Jacques Hadamard independently proposed a similar method in 1907. Its convergence properties for non-linear optimization problems were first studied by Haskell Curry in 1944, with the method becoming increasingly well-studied and used in the following decades.\n Question: Given this text about gradient descent, what is gradient descent, and who invented it?", "output": "In mathematics,  gradient descent (also often called steepest descent) is a first-order iterative optimization algorithm for finding a local minimum of a differentiable function. Gradient descent is generally attributed to Augustin-Louis Cauchy, who first suggested it in 1847"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Paleontology lies on the border between biology and geology, but differs from archaeology in that it excludes the study of anatomically modern humans. It now uses techniques drawn from a wide range of sciences, including biochemistry, mathematics, and engineering. Use of all these techniques has enabled paleontologists to discover much of the evolutionary history of life, almost all the way back to when Earth became capable of supporting life, nearly 4 billion years ago. As knowledge has increased, paleontology has developed specialised sub-divisions, some of which focus on different types of fossil organisms while others study ecology and environmental history, such as ancient climates.\n Question: Based on the following paragraph on paleontology, what's the difference between paleontology and archaeology?", "output": "Paleontology differs from archaeology in that archaeology includes the study of anatomically modern humans whereas paleontology does not."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jukebox is the eleventh studio album by Australian pop vocal group Human Nature released in October 2014. It contains covers from the 1950s and 1960s, with one original song, \"End of Days\"\n Question: Does Jukebox contain many original songs?", "output": "No, it contains covers from the 1950s and 1960s, with only one original song."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A diploma is a document awarded by an educational institution (such as a college or university) testifying the recipient has graduated by successfully completing their courses of studies. Historically, it has also referred to a charter or official document of diplomacy.\n Question: What is the significance of a diploma?", "output": "A diploma testifies the recipient has graduated by successfully completing their courses of studies."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: freeCodeCamp (also referred to as Free Code Camp) is a non-profit organization that consists of an interactive learning web platform, an online community forum, chat rooms, online publications and local organizations that intend to make learning web development accessible to anyone. Beginning with tutorials that introduce students to HTML, CSS and JavaScript, students progress to project assignments that they complete either alone or in pairs. Upon completion of all project tasks, students are partnered with other nonprofits to build web applications, giving the students practical development experience.\n Question: What programming languages does freeCodeCamp teach to students?", "output": "freeCodeCamp is a non-profit organization that has tutorials that introduce students to HTML, CSS and JavaScript."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The game was created in 1965 on Bainbridge Island, Washington, at the summer home of Joel Pritchard, who later served in the United States Congress and as Washington's lieutenant governor. Pritchard and two of his friends, Barney McCallum and Bill Bell, are credited with devising the game and establishing the rules.\n Question: In what year was pickleball invented?", "output": "Pickleball was created in 1965 on Bainbridge Island, Washington."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Due to the demand for the toy, Squishmallows are often sold by resellers for an increased price. The average resell price for a Squishmallow depends on the size, condition, and rarity of the specific item. Some limited edition or high-demand Squishmallows are sold by resellers and collectors for hundreds or thousands of dollars. Jack the Black Cat, known for its closed white eyes and white whiskers, is one of the rarest Squishmallows sold to date. KellyToys introduced the limited edition stuffed animal on their website in 2020, where it sold out within two hours. Third party websites like eBay host listings for Jack the Black Cat valued at nearly $2,000. Among the many Squishmallows that are sold, some of the most popular include Connor the Cow, Malcolm the Mushroom, Archie the Axolotl, and Philippe the Frog. There are reports that resellers are harassed and doxxed by the community.\n Question: What makes a Squishmallow resellable?", "output": "Squishmallows are a highly demanded toy and also often are sold as limited edition items. As a result, Squishmallows that are more unique and rare can often be sold or higher value later. One example is Jack the Black Cat which has been listed on eBay for nearly $2,000."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Gibraltar (/d\u0292\u026a\u02c8br\u0254\u02d0lt\u0259r/ jih-BRAWL-t\u0259r, Spanish: [xi\u03b2\u027eal\u02c8ta\u027e]) is a British Overseas Territory and city located at the southern tip of the Iberian Peninsula. It has an area of 6.7 km2 (2.6 sq mi) and is bordered to the north by Spain. The landscape is dominated by the Rock of Gibraltar, at the foot of which is a densely populated town area, home to over 32,000 people, primarily Gibraltarians.\n\nIn 1704, Anglo-Dutch forces captured Gibraltar from Spain during the War of the Spanish Succession. The territory was ceded to Great Britain in perpetuity under the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713. It became an important base for the Royal Navy, particularly during the Napoleonic Wars and World War II, as it controlled the narrow entrance and exit to the Mediterranean Sea, the Strait of Gibraltar, which is only 14.3 km (8.9 mi) wide. This choke point remains strategically important, with half the world's seaborne trade passing through it. Gibraltar's economy is based largely on tourism, online gambling, financial services, and bunkering.\n\nThe sovereignty of Gibraltar is a point of contention in Anglo-Spanish relations, as Spain asserts a claim to the territory. Gibraltarians overwhelmingly rejected proposals for Spanish sovereignty in a 1967 referendum, and for shared sovereignty in a 2002 referendum. Nevertheless, Gibraltar maintains close economic and cultural links with Spain, with many Gibraltarians speaking Spanish as well as a local dialect known as Llanito.\n\nSince Brexit, Gibraltar is not a member of the European Union but negotiations are underway to have it participate in the Schengen Agreement to facilitate border movements between Gibraltar and Spain. As of March 2023, talks seem deadlocked.\n\nName\nThe name is derived from Arabic: \u062c\u0628\u0644 \u0637\u0627\u0631\u0642, romanized: Jabal \u1e6c\u0101riq, lit.\u2009'Mount of Tariq' (named after the 8th-century Moorish military leader Tariq ibn Ziyad).\n Question: Where does the name Gibraltar come from?", "output": "The name comes from the arabic meaning the mountain of Tarik"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Magnetism is the class of physical attributes that are mediated by a magnetic field, which refers to the capacity to induce attractive and repulsive phenomena in other entities. Electric currents and the magnetic moments of elementary particles giving rise to a magnetic field, which acts on other currents and magnetic moments. Magnetism is one aspect of the combined phenomena of electromagnetism. The most familiar effects occur in ferromagnetic materials, which are strongly attracted by magnetic fields and can be magnetized to become permanent magnets, producing magnetic fields themselves. Demagnetizing a magnet is also possible. Only a few substances are ferromagnetic; the most common ones are iron, cobalt, and nickel and their alloys. The rare-earth metals neodymium and samarium are less common examples. The prefix ferro- refers to iron because permanent magnetism was first observed in lodestone, a form of natural iron ore called magnetite, Fe3O4.\n\nAll substances exhibit some type of magnetism. Magnetic materials are classified according to their bulk susceptibility. Ferromagnetism is responsible for most of the effects of magnetism encountered in everyday life, but there are actually several types of magnetism. Paramagnetic substances, such as aluminium and oxygen, are weakly attracted to an applied magnetic field; diamagnetic substances, such as copper and carbon, are weakly repelled; while antiferromagnetic materials, such as chromium and spin glasses, have a more complex relationship with a magnetic field. The force of a magnet on paramagnetic, diamagnetic, and antiferromagnetic materials is usually too weak to be felt and can be detected only by laboratory instruments, so in everyday life, these substances are often described as non-magnetic.\n Question: Given a reference text about magnetism, tell me the definition of magnetism and how magnetic materials are classified.", "output": "Magnetism is defined as the physical attributes that are mediated by a magnetic field, which is the capacity to induce attractive and repulsive forces. Magnetic materials are classified by their bulk susceptibility."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Apache Spark requires a cluster manager and a distributed storage system. For cluster management, Spark supports standalone (native Spark cluster, where you can launch a cluster either manually or use the launch scripts provided by the install package. It is also possible to run these daemons on a single machine for testing), Hadoop YARN, Apache Mesos or Kubernetes.  For distributed storage, Spark can interface with a wide variety, including Alluxio, Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS), MapR File System (MapR-FS), Cassandra, OpenStack Swift, Amazon S3, Kudu, Lustre file system, or a custom solution can be implemented. Spark also supports a pseudo-distributed local mode, usually used only for development or testing purposes, where distributed storage is not required and the local file system can be used instead; in such a scenario, Spark is run on a single machine with one executor per CPU core.\n Question: What are the main components of Apache Spark based on the paragraph?", "output": "Based on the paragraph, a cluster manager and a distributed storage are two main components of Apache Spark. For cluster manager, Spark supports a standalone cluster,  or  Hadoop YARN, Apache Mesos, or Kubernetes. For storage, Spark supports local file systems for development and testing, as well as Hadoop File System, Cassandra, and cloud storages"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Charles Andr\u00e9 Weiss (September 30, 1858 in Mulhouse - August 31, 1928 in the Hague) was a French jurist. He was professor at the Universities of Dijon and Paris and served from 1922 until his death as judge of the Permanent Court of International Justice.\n\nLife\nAndr\u00e9 Weiss was born in Mulhouse in 1858 and completed a degree in law at the University of Paris in 1880. The following year he became a professor at the University of Dijon. In 1891 he moved to the Law School of the University of Paris. There he was from 1896 to 1908 a full professor of civil law, and from 1908 he held the chair for international law and private international law. From 1907 he also acted as legal advisor to the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He was a close associate of Secretary of State Aristide Briand and participated as a delegate to the Paris Peace Conference at the end of World War I. He led one of the subcommissions of the conference.\n\nFrom 1920, he was a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. In September 1921, he was elected by the Assembly and the Council of the League of Nations to the post of judge on the newly formed Permanent International Court. His fellow judges elected him vice president at the beginning of the Tribunal's work on February 3, 1922. He was confirmed in this office in 1924 and 1927. He died before the end of his term as Judge and Vice President in August 1928 in the Hague. His compatriot, Henri Fromageot, was elected his successor, and in the office of vice-president he was succeeded by the Swiss Max Huber.\n\nAndr\u00e9 Weiss taught in 1923 as a lecturer at the Hague Academy of International Law. He was a member of the Institut de Droit International from 1887, acting as president of its 30th session in 1922 in Grenoble. From 1914 he was a member of the Acad\u00e9mie des sciences morales et politiques.\n Question: here is some text about Andre Weiss, how many years was Andre at University of Dijon in Paris?", "output": "Andre Weiss was at the University of Dijon in Paris for 10 years, 1881 to 1891, before moving to the University of Paris Law School."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: British Captain Fred Allison bids farewell to his new wife, Monica, whom he has only known for six days, and sets out to serve in World War I. He ends up a prisoner of war (POW), tortured by the fact that his wife has not written to him since the early days of his two year captivity.\n\nWhen a fellow inmate shoots a guard, the prisoners make an impromptu unsuccessful dash for freedom, resulting in much bloodshed on both sides. As punishment, they are locked in a crowded cell for about a month. Finally, a new commandant, Oberst Carl Ehrlich, takes charge of the camp. Allison persuades Ehrlich (a fellow Oxford alumnus) to rescind the punishment.\n\nOne day, a fresh batch of POWs arrives. Allison is delighted to find his oldest and best friend among them, Royal Flying Corps Lieutenant Jack \"Dig\" Digby. For some reason though, Dig is not as pleased to see him. However, Allison attributes that to their situation. Dig is determined to escape, regardless of the consequences to his fellow prisoners. He does manage to break free, stealing an aircraft from the nearby airfield.\n Question: How many times does Fred Allison try to escape captivity?", "output": "It seems from the text that Fred Allison tried to escape one time.\n\nThe prisoners made an impromptu unsuccessful dash for freedom when a fellow inmate shot a guard. We don't know for sure, but we can assume that Fred Allison was one of the prisoners that attempted to escape. Dig, Allison's oldest and best friend, managed to break free by stealing an aircraft from a nearby airfield, but it does not appear that Allison was involved."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Campanula cervicaria, also known as the bristly bellflower, is a species of flowering plant in the bellflower family, Campanulaceae. Native to Scandinavia and central Europe, C. cervicaria has also become naturalised in parts of the U.S. state of Minnesota. Its natural habitat is woodland edges, hillside meadows, dry meadows and banks, and it also flourishes where soil has been disturbed, for example after slash-and-burn or forest clearance. The plant has a hairy stem, with light blue flowers about 1 to 2 centimetres (0.4 to 0.8 in) long and grouped together. This C. cervicaria flower was photographed in Keila, Estonia.\n Question: Do you know any beautiful flower with purple petals and native to Scandinavia and central Europe?", "output": "Yes, Campanula cervicaria, also known as the bristly bellflower, is a species of flowering plant in the bellflower family, Campanulaceae. It is Native to Scandinavia and central Europe, it has also become naturalised in parts of the U.S. state of Minnesota."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mount Shakspere is a 12,174-foot-elevation (3,711 meter) summit located in Fresno County, California, United States.  \n  \nDescription  \nThe mountain is set four miles west of the crest of the Sierra Nevada mountain range, in the Palisades area of Kings Canyon National Park. It is situated 4.5 miles (7.2 km) southwest of Middle Palisade, 3.5 miles (5.6 km) southeast of Giraud Peak, and one mile north-northwest of line parent Observation Peak. Mt. Shakspere ranks as the 384th-highest summit in California, and topographic relief is significant as the summit rises over 3,500 feet (1,100 meters) above Palisade Creek in approximately one mile (1.6 km). The first ascent of the summit was made July 20, 1930, by Francis P. Farquhar, Mary Lou Michaels, Doris Drust, Lorna Kilgariff, and Robert L. Lipman. This mountain's name has been officially adopted by the United States Board on Geographic Names.\n Question: How tall is Mt. Shakspere?", "output": "Mt. Shakespere is 12,174 feet (3,711 meters) tall."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: 341 George Street, Sydney is a heritage-listed bank building located at 341 George Street, in the Sydney central business district, in the City of Sydney local government area of New South Wales, Australia. It was built from 1927 to 1932 and housed the headquarters of the Bank of New South Wales, and later Westpac. It is also known as Westpac Bank building and Bank of NSW building. Westpac sold the building in 2002, but continues to lease the lower floors for use as banking chambers. The upper floors are leased by other tenants.\n\nIt was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999. The building served as the Head Office for the Bank of New South Wales until relocated to 60 Martin Place in 1970.\n Question: Given a reference text about 341 George Street, Sydney, tell me when what companies had headquarters there.", "output": "Westpac and Bank of New South Wales had their headquarters at 341 George Street, Sydney."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The first modern swim/bike/run event was held at Mission Bay, San Diego, California on September 25, 1974. The race was conceived and directed by two members of the San Diego Track Club, Jack Johnstone and Don Shanahan. Johnstone recalls that he was a part of the 70s jogging craze in America and that after entering a few races he was not regaining his \"mediocre fitness\" despite having been a member of the 1957 Collegiate and AAU All-American swim teams. Then in 1973, Johnstone learned of the Dave Pain Birthday Biathlon, a 7.2 km (4.5 mi) run followed by what was billed as a quarter-mile (0.4 km) swim (the actual distance was only between 200 and 300 yards). The following year, after competing in the event for the second time and placing in the top ten, Johnstone desired more of this style of race and with equal emphasis on the swim. So he petitioned the chairman of the San Diego Track Club who told him he would add a race to the club calendar. But the rest of the race was up to Johnstone to organise, and at the same time he was to contact Don Shanahan so there wouldn't be too many \"weird\" races on the club schedule. Shanahan told Johnstone that he wanted to include a biking leg to the race; whilst hesitant Johnstone agreed to the addition. When naming the event the pair used the unofficially agreed naming system for multisport events, already used for pentathlon, heptathlon, and decathlon. So they used the Greek prefix tri (three) for the number of events, followed by the already familiar athlon, hence naming the event the Mission Bay Triathlon. It is worthy of note that neither founder had heard of the French events; both believed their race was a unique idea.\n Question: Given this paragraph about modern triathlon, what year did the two founders form mission bay triathlon.", "output": "Modern day triathlon is believed to have occurred in 1974 when founded by two members of the San Diego track club, Don Shanahan and Jack Johnstone. Although the pair reportedly founded the sport, it's important to understand not everything is created and owned by americans. The sport can be traced back to france in 1901, originally called \"Le Trois Sports\", which included Bike, Run and Canoe disciplines. Other forms of multisport had occurred before 1974 including biathlon which included a run of 7.2km followed by a swim of 0.4km) but Nonetheless, on the 25th September 1974, triathlon mission bay in San Diego, California was born."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Warren Edward Buffett (/\u02c8b\u028cf\u026at/ BUF-it; born August 30, 1930) is an American business magnate, investor, and philanthropist. He is currently the chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway. He is one of the best-known fundamental investors in the world as a result of his immense investment success possessing a net worth of $104 billion as of March 2023, making him the fifth-richest person in the world.\n\nBuffett was born in Omaha, Nebraska. He developed an interest in business and investing during his youth, eventually entering the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1947 before transferring to and graduating from the University of Nebraska at 19. He went on to graduate from Columbia Business School, where he molded his investment philosophy around the concept of value investing pioneered by Benjamin Graham. He attended New York Institute of Finance to focus on his economics background and soon after began various investment business partnerships, including one with Graham. He created Buffett Partnership, Ltd in 1956 and his investment firm eventually acquired a textile manufacturing firm called Berkshire Hathaway, assuming its name to create a diversified holding company, and later as the company's chairman and majority shareholder in 1970. In 1978, Charlie Munger joined Buffett as vice-chairman.\n\nSince 1970, Buffett has presided as the chairman and largest shareholder of Berkshire Hathaway, one of America's largest holding companies and world's leading corporate conglomerates. He has been referred to as the \"Oracle\" or \"Sage\" of Omaha by global media as a result of having accumulated a massive fortune derived from his business and investment success. He is noted for his adherence to the principles of value investing, and his personal frugality despite his vast wealth.\n\nBuffett is also a noted philanthropist, having pledged to give away 99 percent of his fortune to philanthropic causes, primarily via the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. He founded The Giving Pledge in 2010 with Bill Gates, whereby billionaires pledge to give away at least half of their fortunes.\n Question: Who is Warren Buffet?", "output": "Warren Edward Buffett is an American business magnate, investor, and philanthropist. He is currently the chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway. He is one of the best-known fundamental investors in the world as a result of his immense investment success possessing a net worth of $104 billion as of March 2023, making him the fifth-richest person in the world.\n\nBuffett was born in Omaha, Nebraska. He developed an interest in business and investing during his youth, eventually entering the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1947 before transferring to and graduating from the University of Nebraska at 19. He went on to graduate from Columbia Business School, where he molded his investment philosophy around the concept of value investing pioneered by Benjamin Graham. He attended New York Institute of Finance to focus on his economics background and soon after began various investment business partnerships, including one with Graham. He created Buffett Partnership, Ltd in 1956 and his investment firm eventually acquired a textile manufacturing firm called Berkshire Hathaway, assuming its name to create a diversified holding company, and later as the company's chairman and majority shareholder in 1970. In 1978, Charlie Munger joined Buffett as vice-chairman.\n\nSince 1970, Buffett has presided as the chairman and largest shareholder of Berkshire Hathaway, one of America's largest holding companies and world's leading corporate conglomerates.\n\nBuffett is also a noted philanthropist, having pledged to give away 99 percent of his fortune to philanthropic causes, primarily via the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. He founded The Giving Pledge in 2010 with Bill Gates, whereby billionaires pledge to give away at least half of their fortunes."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Oak Island has been a subject for treasure hunters ever since the late 1700s, with rumours that Captain Kidd's treasure was buried there. While there is little evidence to support what went on during the early excavations, stories began to be published and documented as early as 1856. Since that time there have been many theories that extend beyond that of Captain Kidd which include among others religious artifacts, manuscripts, and Marie Antoinette's jewels. The \"treasure\" has also been prone to criticism by those who have dismissed search areas as natural phenomena.\n Question: What is hidden at Oak Island?", "output": "Oak Island is rumored to have Captain Kidd's treasure buried. However despite numerous excavation attempts over the past 100 years nothing has been discovered. There are other theories which claim religious artifacts, manuscripts, or Marie Antionette's jewels are hidden at Oak Island."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 2009, Garrett Camp, a co-founder of StumbleUpon, came up with the idea to create Uber to make it easier and cheaper to procure direct transportation. Camp and Travis Kalanick had spent $800 hiring a private driver on New Year's Eve, which they deemed excessive, and Camp was also inspired by his difficulty in finding a taxi on a snowy night in Paris. The prototype of the mobile app was built by Camp and his friends, Oscar Salazar and Conrad Whelan, with Kalanick as the \"mega advisor\" to the company.\n\nIn February 2010, Ryan Graves became the first Uber employee; he was named chief executive officer (CEO) in May 2010. In December 2010, Kalanick succeeded Graves as CEO and Graves became the chief operating officer.\n\nFollowing a beta launch in May 2010, Uber's services and mobile app launched publicly in San Francisco in 2011. Originally, the application only allowed users to hail a black luxury car and the price was approximately 1.5 times that of a taxi. In 2011, the company changed its name from UberCab to Uber after complaints from San Francisco taxicab operators.\n\nThe company's early hires included a nuclear physicist, a computational neuroscientist, and a machinery expert who worked on predicting arrival times for Uber's cars more accurately than Google APIs. In April 2012, Uber launched a service in Chicago, whereby users were able to request a regular taxi or an Uber driver via its mobile app.\n\nIn July 2012, the company introduced UberX, a cheaper option that allowed drivers to use non-luxury vehicles, including their personal vehicles, subject to a background check, insurance, registration, and vehicle standards. By December 2013, the service was operating in 65 cities.\n\nIn December 2013, USA Today named Uber its tech company of the year.\n\nIn August 2014, Uber launched a shared transport service in the San Francisco Bay Area and launched Uber Eats, a food delivery service.\n\n\nUber logo used from February 2016 until September 2018\nIn August 2016, facing tough competition, Uber sold its operations in China to DiDi in exchange for an 18% stake in DiDi. DiDi agreed to invest $1 billion in Uber. Uber had started operations in China in 2014, under the name \u4f18\u6b65 (Y\u014dub\u00f9).\n\nIn 2016, Uber acquired Ottomotto, a self-driving truck company founded by Anthony Levandowski, for $625 million. Levandowski, previously employed by Waymo, allegedly founded Ottomotto using trade secrets he stole from Waymo. Uber settled a lawsuit regarding the use of such intellectual property and reached a deal to use Waymo's technology for its freight transport operations.\n\nIn December 2016, Uber acquired Geometric Intelligence. Geometric Intelligence's 15 person staff formed the initial core of \"Uber AI\", a division for researching AI technologies and machine learning. Uber AI created multiple open source projects, such as Pyro, Ludwig, and Plato. Uber AI also developed new AI techniques and algorithms, such as the POET algorithm and a sequence of papers on neuroevolution. Uber AI was shut down in May 2020.\n\nIn August 2017, Dara Khosrowshahi, the former CEO of Expedia Group, replaced Kalanick as CEO.\n\nIn February 2018, Uber combined its operations in Russia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia and Kazakhstan with those of Yandex.Taxi and invested $225 million in the venture. In March 2018, Uber merged its services in Southeast Asia with those of Grab in exchange for a 27.5% ownership stake in Grab.\n\nBetween May 2018 and November 2018, Uber offered Uber Rent powered by Getaround, a peer-to-peer carsharing service available to some users in San Francisco.\n\nIn November 2018, Uber became a gold member of the Linux Foundation.\n\nOn May 10, 2019, Uber became a public company via an initial public offering.\n\nIn the summer of 2019, Uber announced layoffs of 8% of its staff and eliminated the position of COO Barney Harford.\n\nIn October 2019, in partnership with HeliFlight, Uber offered 8-minute helicopter flights between Manhattan and John F. Kennedy International Airport for $200-$225 per passenger.\n\nBetween October 2019 and May 2020, Uber offered Uber Works, a mobile app connecting workers who wanted temporary jobs with businesses in Chicago and Miami.\n\nIn January 2020, Uber acquired Careem for $3.1 billion and sold its Indian Uber Eats operations to Zomato.\n\nAlso in January 2020, Uber tested a feature that enabled drivers at the Santa Barbara, Sacramento, and Palm Springs airports to set fares based on a multiple of Uber's rates.\n\nIn May 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic, Uber announced layoffs of over 14% of its workforce.\n\nIn June 2020, in its first software as a service partnership, Uber announced that it would manage the on-demand high-occupancy vehicle fleet for Marin Transit, a public bus agency in Marin County, California.\n\nIn July 2020, Uber, in partnership with its majority-owned Cornershop, launched Uber grocery delivery service in Latin America, Canada, Miami, and Dallas.\n\nIn September 2020, Uber committed to carbon neutrality globally by 2040, and required that, by 2030, in most countries, rides must be offered exclusively in electric vehicles.\n\nIn December 2020, Uber acquired Postmates for $2.65 billion.\n\nAlso in December 2020, Uber sold its Elevate division, which was developing short flights using VTOL aircraft, to Joby Aviation.\n\nIn January 2021, Uber ATG/Advanced Technologies Group, a joint venture minority-owned by SoftBank Vision Fund, Toyota, and Denso that was developing self-driving cars, was sold to Aurora Innovation for $4 billion in equity and Uber invested $400 million into Aurora.\n\nIn March 2021, the company moved to a new headquarters on Third Street in Mission Bay, San Francisco, consisting of several 6- and 11-story buildings connected by bridges and walkways.\n\nIn October 2021, Uber acquired Drizly, an alcohol delivery service, for $1.1 billion in cash and stock.\n\nOn January 20, 2022, Uber acquired Australian car-sharing company Car Next Door.\n\nIn May 2022, Uber began operations in Italy, forming a partnership with IT Taxi, Italy's largest taxi dispatcher, to integrate the dispatcher's drivers with the Uber platform. Uber had previously done similar deals in Spain, Germany, Austria, Turkey, South Korea, Hong Kong, and New York.\n\nOn September 15, 2022, Uber discovered a security breach of its internal network by a hacker that utilized social engineering to obtain an employee's credentials and gain access to the company's VPN and intranet. The company said that no sensitive data had been compromised\n Question: Given a reference text about Uber, tell me when the old CEO was replaced.", "output": "In August 2017, Dara Khosrowshahi replaced Travis Kalanick as the CEO of Uber."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Callixena versicolora is a moth of the family Noctuidae first described by Max Saalm\u00fcller in 1891. The species can be found in Africa, where it is known from Ghana, Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Malawi, Kenya, South Africa, Comoros, Madagascar and R\u00e9union.\n\nThis species has a wingspan from 29 to 40 mm.\n\nReferences\nSaalm\u00fcller & von Heyden (1891). Lepidopteren von Madagascar. Zweite Abtheilung. Heterocera: Noctuae, Geometrae, Microlepidoptera. :247\u2013531, pls. 7\u201314 (in German)\n De Prins, J. & De Prins, W. (2019). \"Magusa versicolora (Saalm\u00fcller, 1891)\". Afromoths. Retrieved December 22, 2020.\n Question: Which continent can Callixena versicolora be found?", "output": "Africa"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Caribbean and Central American Action was a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization which has hosted the annual Miami Conference on the Caribbean & Central America for 33 years.\n\nThe organization has a multinational Board of Trustees, currently headed by Cornelius B. Prior, Jr., and is based in Washington, DC.\n\nAmong the public figures speaking at the 33rd conference, held in 2009 in Miami, were the Prime Minister of Haiti, Jean-Max Bellerive, Canada's Minister of State of Foreign Affairs, Peter Kent and Puerto Rico's Secretary of State, Kenneth McClintock. The organization's policy-oriented programs have focused on tourism, financial services, policy and regulatory environments for business in the Americas, energy security, maritime port security, disaster mitigation, customs, telecommunications, intellectual property rights, information technology, agriculture and telecommunications. Cabinet-level officials have represented the United States at prior conferences\n\nThe organization has closed\n Question: What was the Caribbean and Central America Action", "output": "Caribbean and Central American Action was a non-profit organization which has hosted the annual Miami Conference on the Caribbean & Central America for 33 years.\n\nThe organization has a multinational Board of Trustees, currently headed by Cornelius B. Prior, Jr., and is based in Washington, DC.\n\nAmong the public figures speaking at the 33rd conference, held in 2009 in Miami, were the Prime Minister of Haiti, Jean-Max Bellerive, Canada's Minister of State of Foreign Affairs, Peter Kent and Puerto Rico's Secretary of State, Kenneth McClintock. The organization's policy-oriented programs have focused on tourism, financial services, policy and regulatory environments for business in the Americas, energy security, maritime port security, disaster mitigation, customs, telecommunications, intellectual property rights, information technology, agriculture and telecommunications. Cabinet-level officials have represented the United States at prior conferences.\n\nThe organization has closed."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Seville has a Mediterranean climate (K\u00f6ppen climate classification Csa), featuring very hot, dry summers and mild winters with moderate rainfall. Seville has an annual average of 19.2 \u00b0C (67 \u00b0F). The annual average temperature is 25.4 \u00b0C (78 \u00b0F) during the day and 13.0 \u00b0C (55 \u00b0F) at night. Seville is located in the lower part of the Guadalquivir Valley, which is often referred to as \"the frying pan of Spain\", as it features the hottest cities in the country.\n\nSeville is the warmest city in Continental Europe. It is also the hottest major metropolitan area in Europe, with summer average high temperatures of above 35 \u00b0C (95 \u00b0F) and also the hottest in Spain. After the city of C\u00f3rdoba (also in Andalusia), Seville has the hottest summer in continental Europe among all cities with a population over 100,000 people, with average daily highs of 36.0 \u00b0C (97 \u00b0F) in July.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the climate of Seville, Spain, what's the average temperature during the day, at night, and overall?", "output": "Seville's average temperature is 19.2 \u00b0C (67 \u00b0F).\n\nThe average temperature during the day is 25.4 \u00b0C (78 \u00b0F) and the average temperature at night is 13.0 \u00b0C (55 \u00b0F)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Unione Sportiva Sassuolo Calcio, commonly referred to as Sassuolo (Italian pronunciation: [sas\u02c8sw\u0254\u02d0lo]), is an Italian football club based in Sassuolo, Emilia-Romagna. Their colours are black and green, hence the nickname Neroverdi (literally \"black and green\", in Italian).\n\nSassuolo have played in Serie A since the 2013\u201314 season, joining a select group of teams playing in the Serie A but not belonging to a provincial capital city: U.S. Savoia 1908 (Torre Annunziata), Empoli, Legnano, Pro Patria (Busto Arsizio), Carpi and Casale.\n Question: Tell me about the football club Unione Sassuolo", "output": "Unione Sportiva Sassuolo Calcio, commonly referred to as Sassuolo is an Italian football club based in Sassuolo, Emilia-Romagna. Their colours are black and green, hence the nickname Neroverdi (literally \"black and green\", in Italian).\n\nSassuolo have played in Serie A since the 2013\u201314 season, joining a select group of teams playing in the Serie A but not belonging to a provincial capital city: U.S. Savoia 1908 (Torre Annunziata), Empoli, Legnano, Pro Patria (Busto Arsizio), Carpi and Casale."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Green was selected with the 35th overall pick in the 2012 NBA draft by the Golden State Warriors. On July 30, 2012, he signed a three-year, $2.6 million contract with the Warriors. In his NBA debut in the Warriors' season opener on October 31 against the Phoenix Suns, Green played one minute, made one defensive rebound, and committed one foul. Green gradually received more playing time in subsequent games, especially in the wake of injuries to Brandon Rush and Richard Jefferson. After getting only marginal floor time at the beginning of the season, by November 22, Green was playing 15\u201320 minutes per game, and by December 9, as Green gained a bigger role on the team, the Warriors had won 8 of 10 games. On December 12, Green made the winning layup with 0.9 seconds left in the Warriors' 97\u201395 win over the defending champion Miami Heat.\n Question: How did Draymond Green's minutes increase over time?", "output": "In his NBA debut in the Warriors' season opener on October 31, 2012, against the Phoenix Suns, Green played one minute. Green gradually received more playing time in subsequent games, especially in the wake of injuries to Brandon Rush and Richard Jefferson. After getting only marginal floor time at the beginning of the season, by November 22, 2012, Green was playing 15\u201320 minutes per game.\n\nIt is not clear how Green's minutes increased over time beyond November 22, 2012 based on the provided text."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: It is considered a great honor to be invited to live on The Lawn, and 54 fourth-year undergraduates do so each year, joining ten members of the faculty who permanently live and teach in the Pavilions there. Similarly, graduate students may live on The Range. Edgar Allan Poe formerly lived in 13 West Range, and since 1904 the Raven Society has retrofitted and preserved his room much as it may have existed in the 1820s.\n Question: According to this paragraph about the University of Virginia, where did Edgar Allan Poe live during his time at the university?", "output": "Edgar Allen Poe lived in 13 West Range on The Lawn at the University of Virginia."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Quah Jing Wen (Chinese: \u67ef\u656c\u6587; pinyin: K\u0113 J\u00ecngw\u00e9n; born 20 December 2000) is a Singaporean professional swimmer who specialises in individual medley, butterfly and freestyle events.\n\nEducation\nQuah was educated at Methodist Girls' School and Anglo-Chinese School (Independent), before graduating from Texas A&M University in 2021 with a bachelor's degree in biomedical science.\n\nSwimming career\nQuah Jing Wen clocked 2min 12.95sec and set an Under-17 200m butterfly Singaporean national record at the Neo Garden 13th Singapore National Swimming Championships, breaking Tao Li's record set in 2005.\n\nQuah won the bronze in the 2015 SEA Games when making her debut in the 400m IM.\n\nIn 2017, Quah won 5 gold medals and a silver medal at the Commonwealth Youth Games, held in Nassau. In the same year, she also won 5 gold medals in the 2017 SEA Games.[1\n Question: What modalities does Quah Jing Wen specialize on?", "output": "Quah Jing Wen is specialized on individual medley, butterfly and freestyle events."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The series was often described as \"a show about nothing.\" However, in 2014, Seinfeld stated: \"The pitch for the show, the real pitch, when Larry and I went to NBC in 1988, was we want to show how a comedian gets his material. The show about nothing was just a joke in an episode many years later, and Larry and I to this day are surprised that it caught on as a way that people describe the show, because to us it's the opposite of that.\" David similarly commented: \"I like taking the worst qualities that a person has and trying to make something funny out of it. Doesn\u2019t everybody do terrible things and have terrible thoughts? Just by trying to be as funny, you\u2019re going to deal with a lot of things that are real, so the show\u2019s really about something. The whole thing about the show being about nothing is ridiculous.\" Much of the show's humor is based upon repeated use of irony, incongruity and (oftentimes unfortunate) coincidences.\n Question: What do Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David have to say about Seinfeld being called \"a show about nothing\"?", "output": "Larry and Jerry are surprised that the \"a show about nothing\" phrase caught on as a way that people describe the show, and they are not fond of that description of the show.\n\nLarry David commented, \"...the show\u2019s really about something. The whole thing about the show being about nothing is ridiculous\". Larry states that the show is about \"taking the worst qualities that a person has and trying to make something funny out of it\". Jerry mentioned that the show was about \"how a comedian gets his material\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The first season of ten episodes premiered on Apple TV+ on August 14, 2020, with three episodes followed by weekly installments. A second season of 12 episodes premiered on July 23, 2021. In October 2020, the series was renewed for a third season, which premiered on March 15, 2023.\n Question: Given this paragraph, how many seasons are there of Ted Lasso?", "output": "As of March 2023, there have been 3 seasons of Ted Lasso."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Grove Park Sidings is a large stabling complex for suburban commuter trains in Lewisham, South East London. It is situated approximately halfway between Hither Green Station and Grove Park station.\n\nGrove Park Sidings were previously named Hither Green Sidings, until sidings closer to Hither Green were built and took that name, causing the site to be renamed Grove Park Sidings.\n\nIt consists of two sets of sidings, one on either side of the Main line which are linked by a pedestrian footbridge. On the Down side are Bramdean sidings and the large carriage shed, whilst on the Up side are St Mildreds sidings. There is also a carriage washing plant on the inlet road of Down sidings.\n Question: Given this paragraph about a train stabling complex, what was the original name of the Grove Park Sidings?", "output": "Hither Green Sidings"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Douglas Stuart Moore (August 10, 1893 \u2013 July 25, 1969) was an American composer, songwriter, organist, pianist, conductor, educator, actor, and author. A composer who mainly wrote works with an American subject, his music is generally characterized by lyricism in a popular or conservative style which generally eschewed the more experimental progressive trends of musical modernism. Composer Virgil Thomson described Moore as a neoromantic composer who was influenced by American folk music. While several of his works enjoyed popularity during his lifetime, only his folk opera The Ballad of Baby Doe (1956) has remained well known into the 21st century.\n Question: What is Douglas Stuart Moore's best remembered for?", "output": "The Ballad of Baby Doe (1956) as it has remained well known into the 21st century."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: William Henry Gates III (born October 28, 1955) is an American business magnate, philanthropist and investor. He is a co-founder of Microsoft, along with his late childhood friend Paul Allen. During his career at Microsoft, Gates held the positions of chairman, chief executive officer (CEO), president and chief software architect, while also being the largest individual shareholder until May 2014. He was a major entrepreneur of the microcomputer revolution of the 1970s and 1980s.\n Question: Who is Bill Gates?", "output": "Bill Gates is an American business mogul and co-founder of Microsoft."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The action of 12 December 1782 was a naval engagement fought off the coast of Spain near Ferrol, in which the British 40-gun fifth rate HMS Mediator successfully attacked a convoy of five armed ships. Mediator succeeded in capturing one American privateer, the Alexander, and then captured the French ex-ship of the line La M\u00e9nag\u00e8re. The convoy was part of Pierre Beaumarchais's supply chain to the American colonists.\n Question: What exactly was the action of 12 December 1782", "output": "The action of 12 December 1782 was a naval engagement fought off the coast of Spain near Ferrol, in which the British 40-gun fifth rate HMS Mediator successfully attacked a convoy of five armed ships. \n\nMediator succeeded in capturing one American privateer, the Alexander, and then captured the French ex-ship of the line La Menagere. The convoy was part of Pierre Beaumarchais's supply chain to the American colonists."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The daughter of an Algerian father, Anne Zohra Berrached was born and raised in the GDR. Following specialized secondary school in art, she earned a university degree in social pedagogy. Anne Zohra Berrached worked for two years in London as a drama teacher before spending one year abroad in Cameroon and Spain.\n Question: Where was Anne Zohra Berrached born?", "output": "Anne Zohra Berrached was born and raised in GDR (German Democratic Republic)"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Alibaba is one of the world's largest retailers and e-commerce companies. In 2020, it was also rated as the fifth-largest artificial intelligence company. It is also one of the biggest venture capital firms and investment corporations in the world, as well as the second largest financial services group behind Visa via its fintech arm Ant Group. The company hosts the largest B2B (Alibaba.com), C2C (Taobao), and B2C (Tmall) marketplaces in the world. It has been expanding into the media industry, with revenues rising by triple percentage points year after year. It also set the record on the 2018 edition of China's Singles' Day, the world's biggest online and offline shopping day.\n Question: What is the largest retailers and e-commerce companies?", "output": "Alibaba is one of the world's largest retailers and e-commerce companies. It consists of many business including B2B (Alibaba.com), C2C (Taobao) and B2C (Tmall). Alibaba is also one of the largest financial companies and AI companies."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: grep is a command-line utility for searching plain-text data sets for lines that match a regular expression. Its name comes from the ed command g/re/p (globally search for a regular expression and print matching lines), which has the same effect. \"grep\" was originally developed for the Unix operating system, but later available for all Unix-like systems and some others such as OS-9.\n Question: What is grep used for?", "output": "grep is a popular Unix command that is used to search plain-text data sets for lines that match a pattern or regular expression. grep (global regular expression print) was originally developed for the Unix operating system, but later available for all Unix-like systems.\n\nAn example of using the grep command to search for a keyword in a file: grep keyword file.txt\n\nYou can pipe the output of other commands into grep. For example, grep can be used to search a directory for a file: ls ~/Desktop | grep keyword"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Toto is a fictional dog in L. Frank Baum's Oz series of children's books, and works derived from them. His name is pronounced with a long \"O\", a homophone of \"toe toe\". He was originally a small terrier drawn by W. W. Denslow for the first edition of The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900). He reappears in numerous adaptations, such as The Wizard of Oz (1939) and The Wiz (1978).\n Question: Who is Toto?", "output": "Toto may refer to many things but a popular reference is to a small dog in the movie The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900). Toto belongs to Dorothy Gale, the heroine, and plays a key role at several points in the movie including running away (which causes Dorothy to chase after him and get pulled into the story) and pulling the curtain back to reveal that the Wizard is just an old man."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: World records were not officially recognized by the IAAF until 1 January 2004; previously, the best times for the marathon were referred to as the 'world best'. Courses must conform to IAAF standards for a record to be recognized. However, marathon routes still vary greatly in elevation, course, and surface, making exact comparisons impossible. Typically, the fastest times are set over relatively flat courses near sea level, during good weather conditions and with the assistance of pacesetters.\n\nThe current world record time for men over the distance is 2 hours 1 minute and 09 seconds, set in the Berlin Marathon by Eliud Kipchoge of Kenya on 25 September 2022, an improvement of 30 seconds over the previous record also set in the Berlin Marathon by Eliud Kipchoge, on 16 September 2018.\n\nThe world record for women was set by Brigid Kosgei of Kenya in the Chicago Marathon on 13 October 2019, in 2 hours 14 minutes and 4 seconds who broke the record Paula Radcliffe of Great Britain had set over 16 years earlier at the London Marathon.\n Question: Given the reference text about the marathon, who currently holds the men's record in the marathon?", "output": "The current men's world record in the marathon is held by Eliud Kipchoge, who ran the Berlin Marathon on September 25th 2022 with a time of 2 hours 1 minute and 09 seconds."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hurgon began his theatre career with the supporting r\u00f4le of Alberto in the musical Miss Wingrove (1905), with songs by Howard Talbot, which Hurgon produced and directed for Frank Curzon, for whom he next directed The White Chrysanthemum (1905) and The Girl Behind the Counter (1906). Following these successes Hurgon became the director at the Prince of Wales Theatre in London where, when Paul Rubens was indisposed due to ill health while working on Miss Hook of Holland, Hurgon quickly replaced him and finished writing the book and directed the play. Miss Hook was another success, and he moved on to direct My Mimosa Maid (1908) for Curzon. However, The Three Kisses (1907) at the Apollo Theatre and My Mimosa Maid failed, and his association with Curzon ended, his management having lasted for just four performances of the latter piece. Next Hurgon directed The Hon'ble Phil (1908) and Kitty Grey (1909) with music by Talbot at the New Amsterdam Theatre in New York. For C. H. Workman he took over the management of and directed the failing musical Two Merry Monarchs (1910) at the Strand Theatre, the last piece that can be considered a Savoy opera.\n Question: With this paragraph on Austen Hurgon's biography, what movies did he direct before My Mimosa Maid?", "output": "Austen Hurgon directed 5 movies before My Mimosa Maid: Miss Wingrove, The White Chrysanthemum, The Girl Behind the Counter, and Miss Hook of Holland, and The Three Kisses."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Asperger syndrome (AS), also known as Asperger's, is a neurodevelopmental condition characterized by significant difficulties in social interaction and nonverbal communication, along with restricted and repetitive patterns of behaviour and interests. The syndrome is no longer recognised as a diagnosis in itself, having been merged with other conditions into autism spectrum disorder (ASD). It was considered to differ from other diagnoses that were merged into ASD by relatively unimpaired spoken language and intelligence.\n\nThe syndrome was named after the Austrian pediatrician Hans Asperger, who, in 1944, described children in his care who struggled to form friendships, did not understand others' gestures or feelings, engaged in one-sided conversations about their favourite interests, and were clumsy. In 1994, the diagnosis of Asperger's was included in the fourth edition (DSM-IV) of the American Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders; however, with the publication of DSM-5 in 2013 the syndrome was removed, and the symptoms are now included within autism spectrum disorder along with classic autism and pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS). It was similarly merged into autism spectrum disorder in the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11) as of 2021.\n\nThe exact cause of Asperger's is poorly understood. While it has high heritability, the underlying genetics have not been determined conclusively. Environmental factors are also believed to play a role. Brain imaging has not identified a common underlying condition. There is no single treatment, and the UK's National Health Service (NHS) guidelines suggest that 'treatment' of any form of autism should not be a goal, since autism is not 'a disease that can be removed or cured'. According to the Royal College of Psychiatrists, while co-occurring conditions might require treatment, 'management of autism itself is chiefly about the provision of the education, training and social support/care required to improve the person's ability to function in the everyday world'. The effectiveness of particular interventions for autism is supported by only limited data. Interventions may include social skills training, cognitive behavioral therapy, physical therapy, speech therapy, parent training, and medications for associated problems, such as mood or anxiety. Autistic characteristics tend to become less obvious in adulthood, but social and communication difficulties usually persist.\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asperger_syndrome\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Asperger syndrome, after whom it was named?", "output": "The syndrome was named after the Austrian pediatrician Hans Asperger, who, in 1944, described children in his care who struggled to form friendships, did not understand others' gestures or feelings, engaged in one-sided conversations about their favourite interests, and were clumsy."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"The Central Otago wine region is broken into multiple sub-regions, each with its own climate and characteristics.\n\nBannockburn is a small Geographical Indication on the southern banks of the Kawarau River near Cromwell and is a very warm area that was known by gold miners as \"\"the Heart of the Desert\"\". Grapes ripen early on sandy, silty loam soils. The elevation ranges from 220 to 370 metres (720 to 1,210 ft).\nBendigo lies east of the Clutha River / Mata-Au and Lake Dunstan, with grapes planted at both medium elevation (220 metres (720 ft)) and high elevation terraces (330 to 350 metres (1,080 to 1,150 ft)). This warm area has semi arid soils at variable depths, with free draining soils at the lower levels and shallower soils at higher elevations. The Bendigo sub-region includes the vineyards at Tarras and Maori Point.\nGibbston is a tight valley enclosed by mountainous terrain. About 250 hectares of vines are planted on sloping land on the southern bank of the Kawarau River. Gibbston is the coolest and highest of the sub-regions with vineyards between 320 and 420 metres (1,050 and 1,380 ft) altitude. It is sometimes referred to as the Queenstown subregion.\nW\u0101naka, the smallest of the sub-regions, has vineyards planted between the banks of Lake W\u0101naka and the town of Luggate to the east. Ranging between 290 to 320 metres (950 to 1,050 ft) above sea level, the vineyards have a similar but slightly warmer climate than those at Gibbston.\nThe Alexandra Basin is surrounded by the Clutha River / Mata-Au and Manuherikia River and regularly records New Zealand's hottest summer temperatures. Schist outcrops dominate the arid landscape. A wide diurnal shift moderates the high temperatures.\nThe Cromwell Basin contains the highest concentration of vines, in an area bounded by the Kawarau River, Lake Dunstan and the Pisa mountain range. It is a warm district characterised by semi arid, high terraces and moraines and gently sloping fans.\"\n Question: What are the four major subregions in Central Otago?", "output": "The Central Otago wine region is broken into multiple sub-regions: Bannockburn, Bendigo, Bendigo and W\u0101naka"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A multinational venture, the film was made on a US$17 million budget, and was produced by Edko Films and Zoom Hunt Productions in collaboration with China Film Co-productions Corporation and Asian Union Film & Entertainment for Columbia Pictures Film Production Asia in association with Good Machine International. With dialogue in Standard Chinese, subtitled for various markets, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon became a surprise international success, grossing $213.5 million worldwide. It grossed US$128 million in the United States, becoming the highest-grossing foreign-language film produced overseas in American history. The film was the first foreign-language film to break the $100 million mark in the United States.\n Question: Given a reference text about a film, tell me who directed it, the main cast, and the Academy Awards it won.", "output": "This film was directed by Ang Lee and stars Chow Yun-fat, Michelle Yeoh, Zhang Ziyi, and Chang Chen. In the 73rd Academy Awards in 2001, it won Best Foreign Language Film, Best Art Direction, Best Original Score, and Best Cinematography."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kamlaksha Rama Naik, better known as K R Naik (Hindi: \u0915\u093c \u0930\u093e \u0928\u093e\u092f\u0915\u093c) is an Indian industrial engineer. He founded D-Link Ltd. (India) in 1993. He has been in the IT Industry for 50 years and has played a key role in creating the IT networking market and the surrounding channel ecosystem in India. He pioneered several new businesses and distribution models as early as 1990, when IT was a nascent industry and the concept of an IT distribution channel was just conceived. \n\nNaik was born in Karwar, Karnataka on 19 November 1947. He completed his schooling in Karwar and later shifted to Mumbai. Naik is a mechanical engineer with a P.G. Diploma in Industrial Engineering and Licenciate in Plastic Engineering. He earned a Business Management degree from the Jamnalal Bajaj Institute in Mumbai\n Question: Where did Kamlaksha Rama Naik receive his Business Management degree?", "output": "The Jamnalal Bajaj Institute in Mumbai"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tardigrades are the first known animal to survive after exposure to outer space. In September 2007, dehydrated tardigrades were taken into low Earth orbit on the FOTON-M3 mission carrying the BIOPAN astrobiology payload. For 10 days, groups of tardigrades, some of them previously dehydrated, some of them not, were exposed to the hard vacuum of outer space, or vacuum and solar UV radiation. Back on Earth, more than 68% of the subjects protected from solar UV radiation were reanimated within 30 minutes following rehydration, although subsequent mortality was high; many of these produced viable embryos. In contrast, hydrated samples exposed to the combined effect of vacuum and full solar UV radiation had significantly reduced survival, with only three subjects of Milnesium tardigradum surviving. Also, it was found that the space vacuum did not have a significant effect on egg-laying in either R. coronifer or M. tardigradum. However, M. tardigradum exposed to UV radiation had a lower egg laying rate. In May 2011, Italian scientists sent tardigrades on board the International Space Station along with extremophiles on STS-134, the final flight of Space Shuttle Endeavour. Their conclusion was that microgravity and cosmic radiation \"did not significantly affect survival of tardigrades in flight, and stated that tardigrades represent a useful animal for space research.\" In November 2011, they were among the organisms to be sent by the U.S.-based Planetary Society on the Russian Fobos-Grunt mission's Living Interplanetary Flight Experiment to Phobos; however, the launch failed. In August 2019, scientists reported that a capsule containing tardigrades in a cryptobiotic state may have survived for a while on the Moon after the April 2019 crash landing of Beresheet, a failed Israeli lunar lander, but in May 2021 it was reported that they were unlikely to have survived the impact.\n Question: Based on this paragraph on Tardigrades when did we first send them to space?", "output": "The FOTON-M3 mission in September of 2007 is where Tardigrades were exposed to the hard vacuum of outer space for the first time."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A herbivore is an animal anatomically and physiologically adapted to eating plant material, for example foliage or marine algae, for the main component of its diet. As a result of their plant diet, herbivorous animals typically have mouthparts adapted to rasping or grinding. Horses and other herbivores have wide flat teeth that are adapted to grinding grass, tree bark, and other tough plant material.\n Question: What is a herbivore?", "output": "A herbivore is an animal anatomically and physiologically adapted to eating plant material, for example foliage or marine algae, for the main component of its diet."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The modern field of astrobiology can be traced back to the 1950s and 1960s with the advent of space exploration, when scientists began to seriously consider the possibility of life on other planets. In 1957, the Soviet Union launched Sputnik 1, the first artificial satellite, which marked the beginning of the Space Age. This event led to an increase in the study of the potential for life on other planets, as scientists began to consider the possibilities opened up by the new technology of space exploration. In 1959, NASA funded its first exobiology project, and in 1960, NASA founded the Exobiology Program, now one of four main elements of NASA's current Astrobiology Program. In 1971, NASA funded Project Cyclops, part of the search for extraterrestrial intelligence, to search radio frequencies of the electromagnetic spectrum for interstellar communications transmitted by extraterrestrial life outside the Solar System. In the 1960s-1970s, NASA established the Viking program, which was the first US mission to land on Mars and search for metabolic signs of present life; the results were inconclusive.\n Question: Based on the following paragraph on astrobiology, what is the Viking program?", "output": "The Viking program, established by NASA in the 1960s to 1970s, was the first US mission with the goal to land on Mars and search for metabolic signs of present life."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The LP (from \"long playing\" or \"long play\") is an analog sound storage medium, a phonograph record format characterized by: a speed of 33+1\u20443 rpm; a 12- or 10-inch (30- or 25-cm) diameter; use of the \"microgroove\" groove specification; and a vinyl (a copolymer of vinyl chloride acetate) composition disk. Introduced by Columbia in 1948, it was soon adopted as a new standard by the entire record industry. Apart from a few relatively minor refinements and the important later addition of stereophonic sound, it remained the standard format for record albums (during a period in popular music known as the album era) until its gradual replacement from the 1980s to the early 2000s, first by cassettes, then by compact discs, and finally by digital music distribution.\n Question: Which record label created Vinyl", "output": "Vinyl was introduced by Columbia in 1948"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ford Motor Company (commonly known as Ford) is an American multinational automobile manufacturer headquartered in Dearborn, Michigan, United States. It was founded by Henry Ford and incorporated on June 16, 1903. The company sells automobiles and commercial vehicles under the Ford brand, and luxury cars under its Lincoln luxury brand. Ford also owns Brazilian SUV manufacturer Troller, an 8% stake in Aston Martin of the United Kingdom and a 32% stake in China's Jiangling Motors. It also has joint ventures in China (Changan Ford), Taiwan (Ford Lio Ho), Thailand (AutoAlliance Thailand), and Turkey (Ford Otosan). The company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is controlled by the Ford family; they have minority ownership but the majority of the voting power.\n Question: Who founded Ford", "output": "Henry Ford founded Ford Motor Company (aka Ford) in on June 16, 1903 in Dearborn Michigan."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: By 1936 the company felt justified in constructing a large new manufacturing facility in Seamer Road, Scarborough. This allowed increased production, and Plaxtons became popular with many independent operators throughout Northern England. Many of these operators purchased their vehicles through independent dealers, rather than directly from the factory. In this regard, Plaxton's sales were through Lancashire Motor Traders Ltd of Manchester and Arlington Motor Co Ltd of London. The company became known as FW Plaxton & Son by 1937, as the founder's son, also named Frederick William joined the company at the age of 18. FW Plaxton junior was to be known as Eric to avoid confusion with his father.\n\nPlaxtons built a number of different coach designs through the 1930s, until settling on a distinctive house style. The style typically consisted of a very rounded front profile at the windscreen area with side windows that sloped backwards at the front, were upright at the centre, and sloped forward at the back. Bodywork for the Bedford WTB chassis was particularly distinctive, sloping severally from the bottom of the front wheel arch to the roofline, leaving the \"bullnose\" radiator grille protruding. The rear also sloped prominently. The WTB chassis was very popular choice for operators at that time, together with the Dodge RBF and SBF. Leyland and AEC chassis were also popular for larger coaches, notably the Leyland Tiger and AEC Regal.\n\nOn the outbreak of World War II in 1939, coach production halted and the factory was turned into a munitions factory under the control of the Ministry of Aircraft Production. Many records from the early years were lost when an incendiary bomb set fire to the Seamer Road factory in 1943, causing much damage. As the factory was under control of the Ministry of Works, production continued in the open air whilst a replacement was constructed. Some adjacent land was loaned by a market gardener who subsequently joined the board years later.\n Question: When and why was the plaxton coach production halted?", "output": "Coach production was halted in 1939 due to world war outbreak. The factory was turned into munitions factory."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Australian Open is a tennis tournament held annually at Melbourne Park in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The tournament is the first of the four Grand Slam tennis events held each year, preceding the French Open, Wimbledon, and the US Open. The Australian Open starts in the middle of January and continues for two weeks coinciding with the Australia Day holiday. It features men's and women's singles; men's, women's, and mixed doubles; junior's championships; and wheelchair, legends, and exhibition events. Before 1988, it was played on grass courts, but since then two types of hardcourt surfaces have been used: green-coloured Rebound Ace up to 2007 and blue Plexicushion since 2008.\n Question: What is the Australian Open?", "output": "The Australian Open is an annual tennis tournament held at Melbourne Park in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. It is one of the four Grand Slam tennis events, alongside the French Open, Wimbledon and the US Open."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: William Shakespeare (bapt. 26 April 1564 \u2013 23 April 1616) was an English playwright, poet and actor. He is regarded as the greatest writer in the English language and the world's pre-eminent dramatist. He is often called England's national poet and the \"Bard of Avon\" (or simply \"the Bard\"). His extant works, including collaborations, consist of some 39 plays, 154 sonnets, three long narrative poems, and a few other verses, some of uncertain authorship. His plays have been translated into every major living language and are performed more often than those of any other playwright. He remains arguably the most influential writer in the English language, and his works continue to be studied and reinterpreted.\n Question: Who is William Shakespeare", "output": "Many experts agree William Shakespeare is the most important author in the English language.  Although, this is a hotly debated topic, he is still the best known from the Elizabethan period.  He has written many plays.  His most famous tragedy is Hamlet.  He also wrote much poetry in the form of Sonnets.  Arguably, the most interesting sonnet by William Shakespeare is Sonnet 95."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Elie Wiesel (/\u02c8\u025bli vi\u02d0\u02c8z\u025bl/, born Eliezer Wiesel, Yiddish: \u05d0\u05dc\u05d9\u05e2\u05d6\u05e8 \u05f0\u05d9\u05d6\u05e2\u05dc Eliezer Vizel; September 30, 1928 \u2013 July 2, 2016) was a Romanian-born American writer, professor, political activist, Nobel laureate, and Holocaust survivor.\n Question: Extract the occupations of Elie Wiesel from the text.", "output": "Elie Weisel's listed professions were: writer, professor, and political activist."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The word \"aurora\" is derived from the name of the Roman goddess of the dawn, Aurora, who travelled from east to west announcing the coming of the sun. Ancient Greek poets used the corresponding name Eos metaphorically to refer to dawn, often mentioning its play of colors across the otherwise dark sky (e.g., \"rosy-fingered dawn\").\n Question: Where does the word aurora come from?", "output": "The word \"aurora\" is derived from the name of the Roman goddess of the dawn,"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1872 the Boundary Commission travelled through this area while surveying the border between Canada and the United States. During the 1874 March West trek of the North-West Mounted Police, the force established its first camp (called Short Creek Camp) at this location. The community began being served by the Soo Line in 1893, permitting the coal mines in the region to become operational. Roche Perc\u00e9e incorporated as a village on January 12, 1909.\n Question: Based on this article, how did the existence of trains impact the development of Roche Percee?", "output": "The area that became Roche Percee was impacted by trains when the Soo Line connected the village to a train line. This train line allowed for coal mining in the region to develop by providing access for transporting coal. After the development of these coal mines, the area was eventually able to grow enough to become incorporated as a village."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Vedas (/\u02c8ve\u026ad\u0259(z)/ or /\u02c8vi\u02d0d\u0259(z)/, IAST: veda, Sanskrit: \u0935\u0947\u0926\u0903, lit.\u2009'knowledge') are a large body of religious texts originating in ancient India. Composed in Vedic Sanskrit, the texts constitute the oldest layer of Sanskrit literature and the oldest scriptures of Hinduism.\n\nThere are four Vedas: the Rigveda, the Yajurveda, the Samaveda and the Atharvaveda. Each Veda has four subdivisions \u2013 the Samhitas (mantras and benedictions), the Aranyakas (text on rituals, ceremonies, sacrifices and symbolic-sacrifices), the Brahmanas (commentaries on rituals, ceremonies and sacrifices), and the Upanishads (texts discussing meditation, philosophy and spiritual knowledge). Some scholars add a fifth category \u2013 the Upasanas (worship). The texts of the Upanishads discuss ideas akin to the heterodox sramana-traditions.\n Question: What are Vedas?", "output": "Vedas are a religious texts from ancient India written in Sanskrit. There are primarily 4 vedas - Rigveda, Yajurveda, Samaveda and Atharvaveda."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Thierry Daniel Henry (French pronunciation: \u200b[tj\u025b\u0281i danj\u025bl \u0251\u0303\u0281i]; born 17 August 1977) is a French professional football coach, pundit, and former player. Considered one of the best strikers of all time, one of the best players to play in the Premier League and Arsenal F.C's greatest player of all time. Henry was runner-up for both the Ballon d'Or in 2003 and the FIFA World Player of the Year in 2003 and 2004. He was named the FWA Footballer of the Year a record three times, the PFA Players' Player of the Year a joint-record two times, and was named in the PFA Team of the Year six consecutive times. He was also included in the FIFA FIFPro World XI once and the UEFA Team of the Year five times.\n\nHenry made his professional debut with Monaco in 1994 before signing for defending Serie A champions Juventus. However, limited playing time, coupled with disagreements with the club's hierarchy, led to him signing for Premier League club Arsenal for \u00a311 million in 1999. Under long-time mentor and coach Ars\u00e8ne Wenger, Henry became a prolific striker and Arsenal's all-time leading scorer with 228 goals in all competitions. He won the Premier League Golden Boot a record four times, won two FA Cups and two Premier League titles with the club, including one during an unbeaten Invincible season. Henry spent his final two seasons with Arsenal as club captain, leading them to the 2006 UEFA Champions League Final. Henry transferred to Barcelona in 2007 and in the 2008\u201309 season, he was a key part of the club's historic treble when they won La Liga, the Copa del Rey, and the UEFA Champions League. In 2010, he joined Major League Soccer (MLS) club New York Red Bulls and returned to Arsenal on loan for two months in 2012, before retiring in 2014.\n\nHenry had success with France, winning the 1998 FIFA World Cup, UEFA Euro 2000, and 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup. He was named French Player of the Year a record five times, named to the UEFA Euro 2000 Team of the Tournament, awarded both the 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup Golden Ball and Golden Shoe, and named to the 2006 FIFA World Cup All-Star Team. In October 2007, he became his country's record goalscorer, a record he held until December 2022. After amassing 123 appearances and 51 goals, Henry retired from international football after the 2010 FIFA World Cup.\n Question: Which french football player is considered one of the best strikers of all time?", "output": "Thierry Henry, born in 1977, who played professionally between 1994 and 2012, is considered one of the best strikers of all time. He won the FIFA World Cup with France in 1998, the European Cup in 2000 and the Confederations Cup in 2003. Henry turned coach after ending his professional career in 2012."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Gull Harbour (former names States Harbour, Great Harbour) is the 1.3 km wide bay indenting for 2.8 km the east coast of Weddell Island in the Falkland Islands. It is entered north of Gull Point and south of Mark Point, and is centred at 51\u00b053\u203256\u2033S 60\u00b053\u203220\u2033WCoordinates: 51\u00b053\u203256\u2033S 60\u00b053\u203220\u2033W. The principal settlement of the island, Weddell Settlement, is situated at the head of the bay. Until the mid-nineteenth century Gull Harbour was known as Great Harbour.\n Question: How large is the Gull Harbour and where exactly is it located", "output": "Gull Harbour, that has been formerly named as States Harbour or Great Harbour is the 1.3 km wide bay indenting for 2.8 km the east coast of Weddell Island in the Falkland Islands.\n\nIt is entered north of Gull Point and south of Mark Point, and is centred at 51\u00b053\u203256\u2033S 60\u00b053\u203220\u2033W. The principal settlement of the island, Weddell Settlement, is situated at the head of the bay. Until the mid-nineteenth century Gull Harbour was known as Great Harbour."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The sixth-generation Subaru Outback for the North American market was unveiled at the New York Auto Show on April 17, 2019. Full production started from July 29, 2019. This redesigned Outback keeps the same body style (wagon/crossover SUV), while still receiving a few changes, such as new taillights (similar to the ones on the Forester and upcoming Legacy) and an updated, modern interior.\n\nInternally, the 2020 Outback moves to the Subaru Global Platform, which is stiffer and offers a common base to allow use of alternative powertrains, such as hybrid or all-electric. The base model sixth-generation Outback was offered with the 2.5-liter gasoline direct-injection FB25D; a turbocharged 2.4-liter FA24F that was first used on the Subaru Ascent was offered as the uplevel engine, providing improved power, torque, and consumption compared to the discontinued EZ36.\n\nIn addition to all-wheel drive coming standard on every trim, the 2021 model year also added LED adaptive steering-responsive headlights (SRH) on premium variants and a seat-belt reminder standard for all passengers.\n\nWorld markets outside of North America, including Japan, did not launch the sixth generation Outback until 2021.\n\nAustralia launched on the 20th February 2021 with a number of differences over the North American version including updated LED headlights with combined Day Running Light and turn/direction indicator with SRH (Steering Responsive Headlights) standard across all variants (the Touring model also gained Adaptive Driving Beam (ADB) until 2023 when ADB became standard across all model variants), as is pushbutton-start with tailgate PIN access. There is improved camera resolution for rear, side and front driver assistance cameras, EyeSight 4.0 with roadside speed sign reading, adjustable speed limiting, and intersection crash avoidance utilising new EyeSight cameras with a wider field of view and a lower profile inside the cabin. Subaru claim the sole engine fitted to Australian Outbacks, the revised 2.5-litre FB25D, is made of 90% new components compared to the Gen5 engine as well. The Japanese Outback was announced on October 7, 2021; in Japan the Outback is offered exclusively with the 1.8-litre CB18 gasoline direct-injection turbo engine instead.\n\nIn September 2021, the European variant received a five-star rating by the European New Car Assessment Programme (EuroNCAP) 2021.\n\nFor the 2022 model year, Subaru added a new trim level, the Wilderness. Outback Wilderness features 9.5 inches of ground clearance, turbocharged 2.4-liter FA24F engine, and re-tuned transmission gearing with revised front and rear gear ratios. Marketed for off-road use, the Outback Wilderness has 17\" wheels with standard all-terrain tires, enhanced body cladding, and synthetic upholstery.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Subaru Outback, in what year was the Wilderness trim introduced?", "output": "2022"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Psilocybin mushrooms, commonly known as magic mushrooms, are a polyphyletic informal group of fungi that contain psilocybin which turns into psilocin upon ingestion. Biological genera containing psilocybin mushrooms include Psilocybe, Panaeolus (including Copelandia), Inocybe, Pluteus, Gymnopilus, and Pholiotina. Psilocybin mushrooms have been and continue to be used in indigenous New World cultures in religious, divinatory, or spiritual contexts. Psilocybin mushrooms are also used as recreational drugs. They may be depicted in Stone Age rock art in Africa and Europe but are most famously represented in the Pre-Columbian sculptures and glyphs seen throughout North, Central, and South America.\n Question: What is the biological term for Magic Mushrooms?", "output": "Magic Mushrooms are the colloquial term for Psilocybin mushrooms"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: James grew up playing basketball for St. Vincent\u2013St. Mary High School in his hometown of Akron, Ohio. He was heavily touted by the national media as a future NBA superstar. A prep-to-pro, he was selected by the Cleveland Cavaliers with the first overall pick of the 2003 NBA draft. Named the 2004 NBA Rookie of the Year, he soon established himself as one of the league's premier players, leading the Cavaliers to their first NBA Finals appearance in 2007 and winning the NBA MVP award in 2009 and 2010. After failing to win a championship with Cleveland, James left in 2010 as a free agent to join the Miami Heat; this was announced in a nationally televised special titled The Decision and is among the most controversial free agency moves in sports history.\n Question: According to the following paragraph on LeBron James, how did he announce joining the Miami Heat?", "output": "LeBron James announced his move from the Cleveland Cavaliers to the Miami Heat in a television special called \"The Decision\" that was televised nationally."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jeffrey Preston Bezos (/\u02c8be\u026azo\u028as/ BAY-zohss; n\u00e9 Jorgensen; born January 12, 1964) is an American entrepreneur, media proprietor, investor, and commercial astronaut. He is the founder, executive chairman, and former president and CEO of Amazon. With a net worth of US$121 billion as of March 2023, Bezos is the third-wealthiest person in the world and was the wealthiest from 2017 to 2021, according to both Bloomberg's Billionaires Index and Forbes.\n\nBorn in Albuquerque and raised in Houston and Miami, Bezos graduated from Princeton University in 1986. He holds a degree in electrical engineering and computer science. He worked on Wall Street in a variety of related fields from 1986 to early 1994. Bezos founded Amazon in late 1994 on a road trip from New York City to Seattle. The company began as an online bookstore and has since expanded to a variety of other e-commerce products and services, including video and audio streaming, cloud computing, and artificial intelligence. It is the world's largest online sales company, the largest Internet company by revenue, and the largest provider of virtual assistants and cloud infrastructure services through its Amazon Web Services branch.\n\nBezos founded the aerospace manufacturer and sub-orbital spaceflight services company Blue Origin in 2000. Blue Origin's New Shepard vehicle reached space in 2015 and afterwards successfully landed back on Earth; he flew into space on Blue Origin NS-16 in 2021. He also purchased the major American newspaper The Washington Post in 2013 for $250 million and manages many other investments through his venture capital firm, Bezos Expeditions. In September 2021, Bezos co-founded biotechnology company Altos Labs with Mail.ru founder Yuri Milner.\n\nThe first centibillionaire on the Forbes Real Time Billionaires Index and the second ever to have eclipsed the feat since Bill Gates in 1999, Bezos was named the \"richest man in modern history\" after his net worth increased to $150 billion in July 2018. In August 2020, according to Forbes, he had a net worth exceeding $200 billion. In 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic, his wealth grew by approximately $24 billion. On July 5, 2021, Bezos stepped down as the CEO and president of Amazon and took over the role of executive chairman. AWS CEO Andy Jassy succeeded Bezos as the CEO and president of Amazon. In September 2022, he was ranked second on the Forbes 400 list of wealthiest Americans with a net worth of $151 billion.\n Question: Where was Jeff Bezos born?", "output": "Jeffrey Preston Bezos, born January 12, 1964, is an American entrepreneur, media proprietor, investor, and commercial astronaut. He is the founder, executive chairman, and former president and CEO of Amazon. With a net worth of US$121 billion as of March 2023, Bezos is the third-wealthiest person in the world and was the wealthiest from 2017 to 2021, according to both Bloomberg's Billionaires Index and Forbes.\n\nBorn in Albuquerque and raised in Houston and Miami, Bezos graduated from Princeton University in 1986. He holds a degree in electrical engineering and computer science. He worked on Wall Street in a variety of related fields from 1986 to early 1994. Bezos founded Amazon in late 1994 on a road trip from New York City to Seattle. The company began as an online bookstore and has since expanded to a variety of other e-commerce products and services, including video and audio streaming, cloud computing, and artificial intelligence. It is the world's largest online sales company, the largest Internet company by revenue, and the largest provider of virtual assistants and cloud infrastructure services through its Amazon Web Services branch."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: On 25 November 2018, Regalado posted on MIT Technology Review website that He Jiankui was making CRIPSR babies. As it was publicised, He was prompted to announce his experiment and posted the news of the birth of twins, nicknamed Lulu and Nana, on YouTube in five videos the same day. He formally presented the experiment at the Second International Summit on Human Genome Editing organized at the University of Hong Kong on 28 November 2018. He explained that the experiment was to make the babies resistant to HIV infection as they were (as embryos) obtained from an HIV-positive father. He specifically used a mutant gene named CCR5-\u039432 that is known to confer innate resistance to HIV. The twins were born in secrecy in October 2018, and a third baby (revealed in 2022 as Amy) was then almost born, as He reported.\n Question: What type of babies did Regalado say Jiankui was making?", "output": "Regalado said that Jiankui was making CRIPSR babies."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Happytime Murders was released on August 24, 2018, by STXfilms. It received mostly negative reviews from critics for its humor, performances and story, though the puppetry received praise. The film was a box-office bomb, grossing $27.5 million worldwide against a $40\u201347 million budget. The film received six nominations at the 39th Golden Raspberry Awards, including Worst Picture, and Worst Actress for McCarthy who won that award.\n Question: Why was the movie The Happytime Murders given such bad reviews if it was award winning?", "output": "The Golden Raspberry Awards, also known as the Razzies, is a parody award show. They celebrate the failures in cinema. Their tagline is \"Own Your Bad\" and often celebrities that are nominated for a Razzie take it in jest. Sometimes the roles or categories a movie is nominated in the Razzies are also nominated for Oscars or other acclaimed awards. The Happytime Murders film, however, was only nominated for parody awards such as the Razzies."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The names \"laptop\" and \"notebook\" refer to the fact that the computer can be practically placed on (or on top of) the user's lap and can be used similarly to a notebook. As of 2022, in American English, the terms \"laptop\" and \"notebook\" are used interchangeably; in other dialects of English, one or the other may be preferred. Although the term \"notebook\" originally referred to a specific size of laptop (originally smaller and lighter than mainstream laptops of the time), the term has come to mean the same thing and no longer refers to any specific size.\n Question: Given the following paragraph about a laptops, why are laptops called \"laptop\"?", "output": "Laptops are called \"laptop\" because the computer can be practically placed on the user's lap ."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Contrast bathing can be used to reduce swelling around injuries or to aid recovery from exercise. It can also significantly improve muscle recovery following exercise by reducing the levels of blood lactate concentration. For any injury presenting with palpable swelling and heat, and visible redness - such as a strain/sprain - contrast baths are contraindicated during the acute inflammation stage. Acute inflammation begins at the time of injury and lasts for approximately 72 hours.\n Question: What is contrast therapy used for?", "output": "Contrast bathing can be used to reduce swelling around injuries or to aid recovery from exercise."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Selena Marie Gomez was born on July 22, 1992, in Grand Prairie, Texas, to Ricardo Joel Gomez and Texas-born former stage actress Mandy Teefey. She was named after Tejano singer Selena Quintanilla, who died in 1995. Her father is of Mexican descent, while her mother, who was adopted, has Italian ancestry. Gomez's paternal grandparents emigrated to Texas from Monterrey in the 1970s. Of her heritage, Gomez has said she is \"a proud third-generation American-Mexican\" and \"My family does have quincea\u00f1eras, and we go to the communion church. We do everything that's Catholic, but we don't really have anything traditional except go to the park and have barbecues on Sundays after church.\" Gomez was fluent in Spanish until age seven. Her parents divorced when she was five years old, and she remained with her mother. Gomez has two younger half-sisters and a younger stepbrother: Gracie Elliot Teefey, through Mandy and her second husband, Brian Teefey, and Victoria \"Tori\" and Marcus Gomez, through Ricardo and his second wife, Sara. She earned her high-school diploma through homeschooling in May 2010.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Selena Gomez, where did her first name come from?", "output": "Selena Gomez was named after Selena Quintanilla, a Tejano singer."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mickey Mouse is an animated cartoon character co-created in 1928 by Walt Disney and Ub Iwerks. The longtime mascot of The Walt Disney Company, Mickey is an anthropomorphic mouse who typically wears red shorts, large yellow shoes, and white gloves. Taking inspiration from silent film personalities such as Charlie Chaplin's Tramp, Mickey is traditionally characterized as a sympathetic underdog who gets by on pluck and ingenuity. The character\u2019s status as a small mouse is personified through his diminutive stature and falsetto voice, the latter of which was originally provided by Disney. Mickey is one of the world's most recognizable and universally acclaimed fictional characters of all time.\n Question: Who is Micky Mouse?", "output": "Mickey Mouse is an animated cartoon character co-created in 1928 by Walt Disney and Ub Iwerks. The longtime mascot of The Walt Disney Company, Mickey is an anthropomorphic mouse who typically wears red shorts, large yellow shoes, and white gloves. Taking inspiration from silent film personalities such as Charlie Chaplin's Tramp, Mickey is traditionally characterized as a sympathetic underdog who gets by on pluck and ingenuity. Mickey is one of the world's most recognizable and universally acclaimed fictional characters of all time. Mickey generally appears alongside his girlfriend Minnie Mouse, his pet dog Pluto, and his friends Donald Duck and Goofy."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Combat readiness is a condition of the armed forces and their constituent units and formations, warships, aircraft, weapon systems or other military technology and equipment to perform during combat military operations, or functions consistent with the purpose for which they are organized or designed, or the managing of resources and personnel training in preparation for combat.\n\nMost armed forces maintain varying levels of readiness by the troops to engage in combat due to economic considerations which vary from minutes to months. In modern armed forces troops designated special forces are usually those kept at the highest state of readiness for combat, and are often alerted only a few hours before being committed to combat. Where time is of the essence in military action being initiated, the troops, such as pilots of interceptor aircraft, may be kept in constant state of combat readiness.\n Question: Given a reference text about combat readiness, tell me which troops are kept most ready for combat.", "output": "Designated special forces are normally kept at the highest state of readiness for combat."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: An ice pop is a liquid-based frozen snack on a stick. Unlike ice cream or sorbet, which are whipped while freezing to prevent ice crystal formation, an ice pop is \"quiescently\" frozen\u2014frozen while at rest\u2014and becomes a solid block of ice. The stick is used as a handle to hold it. Without a stick, the frozen product would be a freezie.\n\nAn ice pop is also referred to as a popsicle in Canada and the United States, flash in Algeria, paleta in Mexico, the Southwestern United States and parts of Latin America, ice lolly in the United Kingdom (the term ice pop refers to a freezie in the United Kingdom), ice drop in the Philippines, ice gola in India, ice candy in India and Japan, ai tim tang or ice cream tang in Thailand (though both words is also colloquially used to refer to ice cream bar), and kisko in the Caribbean. The term icy pole is often used in Australia, but is a brand name for a specific type, so ice block is also used.\n Question: What is an ice pop?", "output": "An ice-pop is a frozen dessert. It is served on a stick, and is made from sweetened liquid that frozen as a block of ice."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Carol is used as a female name, Carl or Karl is the male version of the name, although in contemporary Western usage it is more commonly used for females. It is a European continental spelling of the English Charles, the Germanic Carl, and the Latin Carolus, and can also be a short version of the name Caroline. Spelling variations include Carole.\n Question: Given the reference text, what is the female equivalent of Karl?", "output": "Carol (sometimes Carole and other variations) is used a female name for Carl or Karl."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Akins graduated from Union Grove High School in McDonough, Georgia. He earned All-State honors as both a junior and senior, as well as All-Conference as a sophomore. He committed and signed to play football for the UCF Knights, choosing the Knights over schools such as LSU and Georgia. However, after being drafted by the Texas Rangers in the third round of the 2010 MLB Draft, he chose to pursue a baseball career instead of attending UCF and signed with the Rangers. Akins struggled in the minor leagues, hitting .218 over four seasons and never rising above high-A ball. He retired from baseball after the 2013 season and returned to play football at UCF.\n Question: What did Jordan Akins do after retiring from baseball?", "output": "Jordan Akins retired baseball after the 2013 season and returned to play football at UCF."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Anne Elizabeth Howells (12 January 1941 \u2013 18 May 2022) was a British operatic mezzo-soprano.\n\nBiography\nHowells was born in Southport, Lancashire on 12 January 1941, the daughter of Trevor Howells and Mona Howells (n\u00e9e Hewart). She was educated at Sale Grammar School, where her teachers included Alfred Higson. She further studied music at the Royal Manchester College of Music (now the Royal Northern College of Music), where her teachers included Frederic Cox. Howells continued singing studies with Vera R\u00f3zsa.\n\nHowells sang in productions at Glyndebourne, the Royal Opera House, and with the Metropolitan Opera in New York, the Lyric Opera of Chicago, the opera houses of both San Francisco and Los Angeles, the four Parisian opera houses, the Grand Th\u00e9\u00e2tre de Gen\u00e8ve, the Salzburger Festspiele, the Vienna Staatsoper, the Carnegie Hall, and the Musikverein of Vienna. She sang in the premieres of Rolf Liebermann's For\u00eat (as R\u00e9gine), Nicholas Maw's The Rising of the Moon (as Cathleen) and of Richard Rodney Bennett's Victory (as Lena). Following her retirement from public performance, Howells taught at the Royal Academy of Music.\n Question: Given a reference text about Anne Elizabeth Howells, tell me the names' of her parents and how she died.", "output": "Anne Elizabeth Howells parents are Trevor and Mona Howells. She died from myeloma."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Buscemi starred in the HBO drama series Boardwalk Empire created by Terence Winter. The series started in 2010, where Buscemi assumed the role as Enoch \"Nucky\" Thompson (based on Enoch L. Johnson), a corrupt Atlantic City politician who rules the town during the Prohibition era. Buscemi's performance garnered him a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor \u2013 Television Series Drama; he later received two more nominations for his work on the same show. In 2011 he hosted NBC's Saturday Night Live.\n Question: What was the name of the character Steve Buscemi played in the HBO series BoardWalk Empire?", "output": "Enoch \"Nucky\" Thompson"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Quit India Movement, also known as the Bharat Chhodo Andolan, was a movement launched at the Bombay session of the All India Congress Committee by Mahatma Gandhi on 8th August 1942, during World War II, demanding an end to British rule in India.\n\nAfter the British failed to secure Indian support for the British war effort with Cripps Mission, Gandhi made a call to Do or Die in his Quit India movement delivered in Bombay on 8 August 1942 at the Gowalia Tank Maidan. Viceroy Linlithgow remarked the movement to be \"by far the most serious rebellion since 1857\".\n\nThe All India Congress Committee launched a mass protest demanding what Gandhi called \"An Orderly British Withdrawal\" from India. Even though it was at war, the British were prepared to act. Almost the entire leadership of the Indian National Congress was imprisoned without trial within hours of Gandhi's speech. Most spent the rest of the war in prison and out of contact with the masses. The British had the support of the Viceroy's Council, of the All India Muslim League, the Hindu Mahasabha, the princely states, the Indian Imperial Police, the British Indian Army, and the Indian Civil Service. Many Indian businessmen profiting from heavy wartime spending did not support the Quit India Movement. The major outside support came from the Americans, as President Franklin D. Roosevelt pressured Prime Minister Winston Churchill to give in to some of the Indian demands.\n\nVarious violent incidents took place around the country against the British regime. The British arrested tens of thousands of leaders, keeping them imprisoned until 1945. Ultimately, the British government realised that India was ungovernable in the long run, and the question for the postwar era became how to exit gracefully and peacefully.\n Question: Who were supporters of Quit India movement?", "output": "Indian National Congress\nAmerican president Franklin D Roosevelt"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Long short-term memory (LSTM) is an artificial neural network used in the fields of artificial intelligence and deep learning. Unlike standard feedforward neural networks, LSTM has feedback connections. Such a recurrent neural network (RNN) can process not only single data points (such as images), but also entire sequences of data (such as speech or video). This characteristic makes LSTM networks ideal for processing and predicting data. For example, LSTM is applicable to tasks such as unsegmented, connected handwriting recognition, speech recognition, machine translation, speech activity detection, robot control, video games, and healthcare.\n Question: Given this paragraph, what are some examples of long short-term memory (LSTM) use cases?", "output": "Long short-term memory  is used for handwriting recognition,  speech recognition, machine translation, speech activity detection, robot control, video games and healthcare."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Dormouse is a character in \"A Mad Tea-Party\", Chapter VII  from the 1865 novel Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll.\n\nThe Dormouse sat between the March Hare and the Mad Hatter. They were using him as a cushion while he slept when Alice arrives at the start of the chapter.\n\nThe Dormouse is always falling asleep during the scene, waking up every so often, for example to say:\n\n`You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to be talking in his sleep, that \"I breathe when I sleep\" is the same thing as \"I sleep when I breathe\"!'\n\nHe also tells a story about three young sisters who live in a treacle well, live on treacle, and draw pictures of things beginning with M, such as mousetraps, memory and muchness.\n\nHe later appears, equally sleepy, at the Knave of Hearts' trial and voices resentment at Alice for growing, and his last interaction with any character is his being \"suppressed\" (amongst other things) by the Queen for shouting out that tarts are made of treacle.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Dormouse, in which novel is it a character?", "output": "The Dormouse is a character in the novel \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Amanecer is an album by Bomba Est\u00e9reo. It earned Bomba Est\u00e9reo a Latin Grammy Award nomination for Best Alternative Music Album and a Grammy Award nomination for Best Latin Rock, Urban or Alternative Album. It peaked at number 17 on the Billboard Top Latin Albums chart. It was also considered the best Latin album of 2015 by Rolling Stone.\n\nIt includes the viral hit \"Soy Yo\", which features Costa Rican child star Sarai Gonzalez, and received over 109 million views on YouTube. The song and video were called a \"celebration of self and a symbol of proud Latinidad\" and \"an ode to brown girls\".\n Question: Given a reference text about Amanecer, who made the album and what viral song did it include?", "output": "Bomba Est\u00e9reo made the album Amanecer. The album includes the viral song \"Soy Yo\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Drangaj\u00f6kull (pronounced [\u02c8trau\u014bka\u02ccj\u0153\u02d0k\u028ftl\u0325], regionally also [\u02c8tra\u014bk-]) is the northernmost glacier of Iceland. It is situated southwest of the peninsula Hornstrandir in the Westfjords region. The glacier covers an area of 160\u2013200 km2 (62\u201377 sq mi), at an altitude of up to 925 m (3,035 ft). It is the only Icelandic glacier which lies entirely below an altitude of 1000 metres and also the only one that has not shrunk in recent years.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Drangaj\u00f6kull, tell me where it's located.", "output": "Drangaj\u00f6kull is located in Iceland in the Westfjords region."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The International Olympic Committee agreed in 1907 that the distance for the 1908 London Olympic marathon would be about 25 miles or 40 kilometers. The organizers decided on a course of 26 miles from the start at Windsor Castle to the royal entrance to the White City Stadium, followed by a lap (586 yards 2 feet; 536 m) of the track, finishing in front of the Royal Box. The course was later altered to use a different entrance to the stadium, followed by a partial lap of 385 yards to the same finish.\n\nThe modern 42.195 km (26.219 mi) standard distance for the marathon was set by the International Amateur Athletic Federation (IAAF) in May 1921 directly from the length used at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London.\n Question: Given the reference text about the history of the Olympic marathon distance, tell me what was the distance of the Olympic marathon during the 1924 Olympics in Paris in kilometers?", "output": "The distance of the Olympic marathon in 1924 would have been 42.195 kilometers, since this is the standard distance set by the IAAF in 1921."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bull sharks are large and stout, with females being larger than males. The bull shark can be up to 81 cm (2 ft 8 in) in length at birth. Adult female bull sharks average 2.4 m (8 ft) long and typically weigh 130 kg (290 lb), whereas the slightly smaller adult male averages 2.25 m (7 ft) and 95 kg (209 lb). While a maximum size of 3.5 m (11 ft) is commonly reported, a single record exists of a female specimen of exactly 4.0 m (13 ft). A 3.25 m (10.7 ft) long pregnant individual reached 450 kg (990 lb). Bull sharks are wider and heavier than other requiem sharks of comparable length, and are grey on top and white below. The second dorsal fin is smaller than the first. The bull shark's caudal fin is longer and lower than that of the larger sharks, and it has a small snout, and lacks an interdorsal ridge.\n Question: Given this paragraph about bull sharks, how long are adult female adult sharks in feet?", "output": "Adult female bull sharks average 8 feet long."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sean Dunphy (30 November 1937 \u2013 17 May 2011) was an Irish singer who represented Ireland at the 1967 Eurovision Song Contest, achieving second place with \"If I Could Choose\". He was also the first Irish singer to record in Nashville.\n\nCareer\nBorn in Whitehall, Dublin, Dunphy first became famous in his home country as lead singer with The Hoedowners, a showband led by trumpeter Earl Gill. Between 1966 and 1973, fourteen singles by Sean Dunphy and The Hoedowners entered the Irish Charts including, in 1969, two number ones: \"Lonely Woods of Upton\" and \"When The Fields Were White With Daisies\". In the late 1970s, Dunphy went on to have two further hits as a solo artist.\n\nDespite undergoing a quadruple heart bypass operation in 2007, Sean Dunphy continued to give live performances. In March 2009, he sang many of his greatest hits in a one-off concert at Dublin's National Concert Hall. His last public engagement was at a charity event twenty-four hours before his death.\n\nDunphy died at his home in Baldoyle, County Dublin and is buried at Greenogue cemetery in Ashbourne, County Meath.\n\nSean Dunphy and his wife Lily had four children. His son Brian is a member of the Irish band, The High Kings.\n Question: Given a reference text about Sean Dunphy, tell me where he is buried.", "output": "Sean Dunphy is buried at Greenogue cemetery in Ashbourne, County Meath."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Heat shock proteins (HSP) are a family of proteins produced by cells in response to exposure to stressful conditions. They were first described in relation to heat shock, but are now known to also be expressed during other stresses including exposure to cold, UV light and during wound healing or tissue remodeling. Many members of this group perform chaperone functions by stabilizing new proteins to ensure correct folding or by helping to refold proteins that were damaged by the cell stress. This increase in expression is transcriptionally regulated. The dramatic upregulation of the heat shock proteins is a key part of the heat shock response and is induced primarily by heat shock factor (HSF). HSPs are found in virtually all living organisms, from bacteria to humans.\n Question: What are Heat Shock proteins?", "output": "Heat shock proteins (HSP) are a family of proteins produced by cells in response to exposure to stressful conditions."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Twitter is an online social media and social networking service owned and operated by American company Twitter, Inc., on which users post or reply to texts, images and videos known as \"tweets\". Registered users can tweet, like, \"retweet\" tweets and direct message (DM), while unregistered users only have the ability to view public tweets. Users interact with Twitter through browser or mobile frontend software, or programmatically via its APIs.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Twitter, how can programmers connect to Twitter when building custom applications?", "output": "Programmers can connect to Twitter when building custom applications by using Twitter APIs."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wall was born on the Navajo Nation in Ganado, Arizona, to James and Joan (n\u00e9e Hamilton) Wall. His parents converted to Catholicism after coming into contact with two Franciscan friars. One of six children, he has three sisters and two brothers. Wall graduated from Chandler High School in Chandler, Arizona, in 1983 and attended Arizona State University, obtaining a bachelor's degree in history in 1993.\n Question: How many children did James S. Wall have?", "output": "James S. Wall had six children."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Apple rejected the \"design by committee\" approach that had yielded the Motorola ROKR E1, a largely unsuccessful \"iTunes phone\" made in collaboration with Motorola. Among other deficiencies, the ROKR E1's firmware limited storage to only 100 iTunes songs to avoid competing with Apple's iPod nano. Cingular gave Apple the liberty to develop the iPhone's hardware and software in-house, a rare practice at the time, and paid Apple a fraction of its monthly service revenue (until the iPhone 3G), in exchange for four years of exclusive U.S. sales, until 2011.\n\nThe iPhone was the first mobile phone with multi-touch technology. Since the iPhone's launch, it gained larger screen sizes, video-recording, waterproofing, and many accessibility features. Up to iPhone 8 and 8 Plus, iPhones had a single button on the front panel with the Touch ID fingerprint sensor. Since iPhone X, iPhone models have switched to a nearly bezel-less front screen design with Face ID facial recognition, and app switching activated by gestures. Touch ID is still used for the budget iPhone SE series.\n Question: Why was the iPhone such a successful product?", "output": "The iPhone did away with physical keyboards and instead introduced a multi-touch screen which didn't require a stylus. The iPhone software, iOS, was developed to take advantage of all hardware and design capabilities of the phone, including the touchscreen. Each application presented its customized input options on the touch screen. In addition, the iOS was flexible and expandable through the App Store, giving the iPhone  user a wide choice of third-party apps which were not known before. iPhone hardware quality was also a nice surprise to the users."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hanlon's razor is an adage or rule of thumb that states, \"Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity.\" Known in several other forms, it is a philosophical razor that suggests a way of eliminating unlikely explanations for human behavior. It is probably named after Robert J. Hanlon, who submitted the statement to Murphy's Law Book Two (1980). Similar statements have been recorded since at least the 18th century.\n\nOrigin\nA similar quotation appears in Robert A. Heinlein's novella Logic of Empire (1941). The character \"Doc\" in Heinlein's story described the \"devil theory\" fallacy, explaining, \"You have attributed conditions to villainy that simply result from stupidity.\"\n\nThe quotation as such was a submission credited in print to Robert J. Hanlon of Scranton, Pennsylvania, for a compilation of various jokes related to Murphy's law that were published in Arthur Bloch's Murphy's Law Book Two: More Reasons Why Things Go Wrong! (1980). It is unknown whether Hanlon knew of Heinlein's story or whether he independently constructed the phrase.[citation needed]\n\nHanlon's razor became well-known after its inclusion in the Jargon File, a glossary of computer programmer slang, since 1990. Later that same year, the Jargon File editors noted lack of knowledge about the term's derivation and the existence of a similar epigram by William James, though this was possibly intended as a reference to William James Laidlay. In 1996, the Jargon File entry on Hanlon's Razor noted the existence of the phrase in Heinlein's novella, with speculation that Hanlon's Razor might be a corruption of \"Heinlein's Razor\". The link to Murphy's law was described in a pair of 2001 blog entries by Quentin Stafford-Fraser, citing emails from Joseph E. Bigler. Subsequently, in 2002, the Jargon File entry noted the same. Current Jargon File refers to it as a \"Murphyism\".\n\nThe name was inspired by Occam's razor.\n Question: Given a reference text about Hanlon's razor, when did the adage become well-known?", "output": "Hanlon's razor became well-known after its inclusion in the Jargon File, a glossary of computer programmer slang, since 1990."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cricket is a bat-and-ball game played between two teams of eleven players on a field at the center of which is a 22-yard (20-metre) pitch with a wicket at each end, each comprising two bails balanced on three stumps. The batting side scores runs by striking the ball bowled at one of the wickets with the bat and then running between the wickets, while the bowling and fielding side tries to prevent this (by preventing the ball from leaving the field, and getting the ball to either wicket) and dismiss each batter (so they are \"out\"). Means of dismissal include being bowled, when the ball hits the stumps and dislodges the bails, and by the fielding side either catching the ball after it is hit by the bat, but before it hits the ground, or hitting a wicket with the ball before a batter can cross the crease in front of the wicket. When ten batters have been dismissed, the innings ends and the teams swap roles. The game is adjudicated by two umpires, aided by a third umpire and match referee in international matches. They communicate with two off-field scorers who record the match's statistical information.\n Question: What is Cricket?", "output": "Cricket is a bat and ball game, invented in England. The earliest reference to cricket is in South East England in the mid-16th century. It spread globally with the expansion of the British Empire, with the first international matches in the second half of the 19th century. The game's governing body is the International Cricket Council (ICC), which has over 100 members, twelve of which are full members who play Test matches. The game's rules, the Laws of Cricket, are maintained by Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) in London. The sport is followed primarily in South Asia, Australasia, the United Kingdom, Southern Africa and the West Indies. There are 3 main forms/editions of Cricket: Test matches (usually lasting 5 days), ODI (one day international) usually lasting 6-8 hours, and more recent and popular T20 usually lasting 3-4 hours."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Carter attended Plains High School from 1937 to 1941, graduating from the eleventh grade, since the school did not have a twelfth grade. By that time, Archery and Plains had been impoverished by the Great Depression, but the family benefited from New Deal farming subsidies, and Carter's father took a position as a community leader. Carter himself was a diligent student with a fondness for reading. A popular anecdote holds that he was passed over for valedictorian after he and his friends skipped school to venture downtown in a hot rod. Carter's truancy was mentioned in a local newspaper, although it is not clear he would have otherwise been valedictorian. As an adolescent, Carter played on the Plains High School basketball team, and also joined a youth organization named the Future Farmers of America, which helped him develop a lifelong interest in woodworking.\n\nCarter had long dreamed of attending the United States Naval Academy. In 1941, he started undergraduate coursework in engineering at Georgia Southwestern College in nearby Americus, Georgia. The following year, he transferred to the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, and he earned admission to the Naval Academy in 1943.\u200a He was a good student but was seen as reserved and quiet, in contrast to the academy's culture of aggressive hazing of freshmen.\u200a While at the academy, Carter fell in love with Rosalynn Smith, a friend of his sister Ruth. The two married shortly after his graduation in 1946. He was a sprint football player for the Navy Midshipmen. Carter graduated 60th out of 821 midshipmen in the class of 1947 with a Bachelor of Science degree and was commissioned as an ensign.\n Question: Given these two paragraphs, where did Jimmy Carter go to college?", "output": "Jimmy Carter received his Bachelor of Science degree from the United States Naval Academy in 1947. However, he began his undergraduate studies at Georgia Southwestern College. A year later, he transferred to the Georgia Institute of Technology before ultimately earning his admission into the Naval Academy where he would complete his studies."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mount Everest is Earth's highest mountain above sea level, located in the Mahalangur Himal sub-range of the Himalayas. The China\u2013Nepal border runs across its summit point. Its elevation of 8,848.86 m was most recently established in 2020 by the Chinese and Nepali authorities\n Question: what's the tallest mountain in the world", "output": "Mount Everest"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bully (alternatively titled Bully: The Musical) is a 2017 musical featurette written and directed by Aaron Alon and produced by Thunderclap Productions. Bully is a dramatic musical about Sam Bradley, a young man who kills himself after being repeatedly bullied in school because others suspect he is gay. The story follows Sam in the days leading up to his death and the lives of those around him in the days following his suicide.\n\nBully premiered in the United States on September 24, 2017, at Alamo Drafthouse \u2013 Mason Park in Houston, Texas. The film had its film festival premiere in the 2018 Rainier Independent Film Festival in Ashford, Washington, on May 20, 2018.\n Question: Given a reference text about Bully, tell me when it premiered and what it was about.", "output": "Bully premiered on September 24, 2017 and was about a young man who commits suicide after being bullied in school because others thought he was gay."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: TThe first AI winter 1974\u20131980\nIn the 1970s, AI was subject to critiques and financial setbacks. AI researchers had failed to appreciate the difficulty of the problems they faced. Their tremendous optimism had raised expectations impossibly high, and when the promised results failed to materialize, funding for AI disappeared. At the same time, the field of connectionism (or neural nets) was shut down almost completely for 10 years by Marvin Minsky's devastating criticism of perceptrons. Despite the difficulties with public perception of AI in the late 70s, new ideas were explored in logic programming, commonsense reasoning and many other areas.\n\nThe problems\nIn the early seventies, the capabilities of AI programs were limited. Even the most impressive could only handle trivial versions of the problems they were supposed to solve; all the programs were, in some sense, \"toys\". AI researchers had begun to run into several fundamental limits that could not be overcome in the 1970s. Although some of these limits would be conquered in later decades, others still stymie the field to this day.\n\nLimited computer power: There was not enough memory or processing speed to accomplish anything truly useful. For example, Ross Quillian's successful work on natural language was demonstrated with a vocabulary of only twenty words, because that was all that would fit in memory. Hans Moravec argued in 1976 that computers were still millions of times too weak to exhibit intelligence. He suggested an analogy: artificial intelligence requires computer power in the same way that aircraft require horsepower. Below a certain threshold, it's impossible, but, as power increases, eventually it could become easy. With regard to computer vision, Moravec estimated that simply matching the edge and motion detection capabilities of human retina in real time would require a general-purpose computer capable of 109 operations/second (1000 MIPS). As of 2011, practical computer vision applications require 10,000 to 1,000,000 MIPS. By comparison, the fastest supercomputer in 1976, Cray-1 (retailing at $5 million to $8 million), was only capable of around 80 to 130 MIPS, and a typical desktop computer at the time achieved less than 1 MIPS.\nIntractability and the combinatorial explosion. In 1972 Richard Karp (building on Stephen Cook's 1971 theorem) showed there are many problems that can probably only be solved in exponential time (in the size of the inputs). Finding optimal solutions to these problems requires unimaginable amounts of computer time except when the problems are trivial. This almost certainly meant that many of the \"toy\" solutions used by AI would probably never scale up into useful systems.\nCommonsense knowledge and reasoning. Many important artificial intelligence applications like vision or natural language require simply enormous amounts of information about the world: the program needs to have some idea of what it might be looking at or what it is talking about. This requires that the program know most of the same things about the world that a child does. Researchers soon discovered that this was a truly vast amount of information. No one in 1970 could build a database so large and no one knew how a program might learn so much information.\nMoravec's paradox: Proving theorems and solving geometry problems is comparatively easy for computers, but a supposedly simple task like recognizing a face or crossing a room without bumping into anything is extremely difficult. This helps explain why research into vision and robotics had made so little progress by the middle 1970s.\nThe frame and qualification problems. AI researchers (like John McCarthy) who used logic discovered that they could not represent ordinary deductions that involved planning or default reasoning without making changes to the structure of logic itself. They developed new logics (like non-monotonic logics and modal logics) to try to solve the problems.\nThe end of funding\nSee also: AI winter\nThe agencies which funded AI research (such as the British government, DARPA and NRC) became frustrated with the lack of progress and eventually cut off almost all funding for undirected research into AI. The pattern began as early as 1966 when the ALPAC report appeared criticizing machine translation efforts. After spending 20 million dollars, the NRC ended all support. In 1973, the Lighthill report on the state of AI research in England criticized the utter failure of AI to achieve its \"grandiose objectives\" and led to the dismantling of AI research in that country. (The report specifically mentioned the combinatorial explosion problem as a reason for AI's failings.) DARPA was deeply disappointed with researchers working on the Speech Understanding Research program at CMU and canceled an annual grant of three million dollars. By 1974, funding for AI projects was hard to find.\n\nHans Moravec blamed the crisis on the unrealistic predictions of his colleagues. \"Many researchers were caught up in a web of increasing exaggeration.\" However, there was another issue: since the passage of the Mansfield Amendment in 1969, DARPA had been under increasing pressure to fund \"mission-oriented direct research, rather than basic undirected research\". Funding for the creative, freewheeling exploration that had gone on in the 60s would not come from DARPA. Instead, the money was directed at specific projects with clear objectives, such as autonomous tanks and battle management systems.\n\nCritiques from across campus\nSee also: Philosophy of artificial intelligence\nSeveral philosophers had strong objections to the claims being made by AI researchers. One of the earliest was John Lucas, who argued that G\u00f6del's incompleteness theorem showed that a formal system (such as a computer program) could never see the truth of certain statements, while a human being could. Hubert Dreyfus ridiculed the broken promises of the 1960s and critiqued the assumptions of AI, arguing that human reasoning actually involved very little \"symbol processing\" and a great deal of embodied, instinctive, unconscious \"know how\". John Searle's Chinese Room argument, presented in 1980, attempted to show that a program could not be said to \"understand\" the symbols that it uses (a quality called \"intentionality\"). If the symbols have no meaning for the machine, Searle argued, then the machine can not be described as \"thinking\".\n\nThese critiques were not taken seriously by AI researchers, often because they seemed so far off the point. Problems like intractability and commonsense knowledge seemed much more immediate and serious. It was unclear what difference \"know how\" or \"intentionality\" made to an actual computer program. Minsky said of Dreyfus and Searle \"they misunderstand, and should be ignored.\" Dreyfus, who taught at MIT, was given a cold shoulder: he later said that AI researchers \"dared not be seen having lunch with me.\" Joseph Weizenbaum, the author of ELIZA, felt his colleagues' treatment of Dreyfus was unprofessional and childish. Although he was an outspoken critic of Dreyfus' positions, he \"deliberately made it plain that theirs was not the way to treat a human being.\"\n\nWeizenbaum began to have serious ethical doubts about AI when Kenneth Colby wrote a \"computer program which can conduct psychotherapeutic dialogue\" based on ELIZA. Weizenbaum was disturbed that Colby saw a mindless program as a serious therapeutic tool. A feud began, and the situation was not helped when Colby did not credit Weizenbaum for his contribution to the program. In 1976, Weizenbaum published Computer Power and Human Reason which argued that the misuse of artificial intelligence has the potential to devalue human life.\n\nPerceptrons and the attack on connectionism\nA perceptron was a form of neural network introduced in 1958 by Frank Rosenblatt, who had been a schoolmate of Marvin Minsky at the Bronx High School of Science. Like most AI researchers, he was optimistic about their power, predicting that \"perceptron may eventually be able to learn, make decisions, and translate languages.\" An active research program into the paradigm was carried out throughout the 1960s but came to a sudden halt with the publication of Minsky and Papert's 1969 book Perceptrons. It suggested that there were severe limitations to what perceptrons could do and that Frank Rosenblatt's predictions had been grossly exaggerated. The effect of the book was devastating: virtually no research at all was done in connectionism for 10 years. Eventually, a new generation of researchers would revive the field and thereafter it would become a vital and useful part of artificial intelligence. Rosenblatt would not live to see this, as he died in a boating accident shortly after the book was published.\n\nLogic and symbolic reasoning: the \"neats\"\nLogic was introduced into AI research as early as 1959, by John McCarthy in his Advice Taker proposal. In 1963, J. Alan Robinson had discovered a simple method to implement deduction on computers, the resolution and unification algorithm. However, straightforward implementations, like those attempted by McCarthy and his students in the late 1960s, were especially intractable: the programs required astronomical numbers of steps to prove simple theorems. A more fruitful approach to logic was developed in the 1970s by Robert Kowalski at the University of Edinburgh, and soon this led to the collaboration with French researchers Alain Colmerauer and Philippe Roussel who created the successful logic programming language Prolog. Prolog uses a subset of logic (Horn clauses, closely related to \"rules\" and \"production rules\") that permit tractable computation. Rules would continue to be influential, providing a foundation for Edward Feigenbaum's expert systems and the continuing work by Allen Newell and Herbert A. Simon that would lead to Soar and their unified theories of cognition.\n\nCritics of the logical approach noted, as Dreyfus had, that human beings rarely used logic when they solved problems. Experiments by psychologists like Peter Wason, Eleanor Rosch, Amos Tversky, Daniel Kahneman and others provided proof. McCarthy responded that what people do is irrelevant. He argued that what is really needed are machines that can solve problems\u2014not machines that think as people do.\n\nFrames and scripts: the \"scuffles\"\nAmong the critics of McCarthy's approach were his colleagues across the country at MIT. Marvin Minsky, Seymour Papert and Roger Schank were trying to solve problems like \"story understanding\" and \"object recognition\" that required a machine to think like a person. In order to use ordinary concepts like \"chair\" or \"restaurant\" they had to make all the same illogical assumptions that people normally made. Unfortunately, imprecise concepts like these are hard to represent in logic. Gerald Sussman observed that \"using precise language to describe essentially imprecise concepts doesn't make them any more precise.\" Schank described their \"anti-logic\" approaches as \"scruffy\", as opposed to the \"neat\" paradigms used by McCarthy, Kowalski, Feigenbaum, Newell and Simon.\n\nIn 1975, in a seminal paper, Minsky noted that many of his fellow \"scruffy\" researchers were using the same kind of tool: a framework that captures all our common sense assumptions about something. For example, if we use the concept of a bird, there is a constellation of facts that immediately come to mind: we might assume that it flies, eats worms and so on. We know these facts are not always true and that deductions using these facts will not be \"logical\", but these structured sets of assumptions are part of the context of everything we say and think. He called these structures \"frames\". Schank used a version of frames he called \"scripts\" to successfully answer questions about short stories in English.\n Question: What factors contributed to the decline of AI research in the 1970s?", "output": "Unrealistic expectations, a lack of funding, the challenge of producing significant results, and the discovery of a number of fundamental limitations that AI scientists could not overcome in the 1970s all contributed to the decline of AI research in that decade"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Museo Municipal Taurino Francisco Montes is located in Chiclana de la Frontera, in the province of C\u00e1diz, Andalusia, southwestern Spain. Situated on San Agust\u00edn Street, the bullfighting museum is dedicated to the matador Francisco Montes Reina (1805\u20131851), nicknamed \"Paquiro\", who was born in this town. He is considered the most important 19th century bullfighter, because of his skill at the sport, on foot or on horseback. The bullfighting displays include pieces of great historical and artistic value. It was inaugurated in 2003 and founded by Pedro Leal Aragon who for seven years collected objects, souvenirs and bullfighting implements. One of its first events was a group show of the artists Antonio Vela, Carlos Quevedo, and Paloma Garcia. After a renovation, it re-opened in June 2005 with miniature models of the bullring in Ronda, a head bust of Paquiro, and an original painting by Antonio Cavanna.The expansion also housed Spain's most important bullfighting collection, Collection Sagnier, which was acquired by the city to improve the historical and artistic quality of the municipal bullfighting museum. There are four rooms: bullfighting origins, Paquiro and his time, contemporary bullfighting, and the bull and the arts. The museum's garden is used for book presentations, press conferences, weddings and small concerts. It is closed on Sundays.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Museo Municipal Taurino Francisco Montes, where is it located?", "output": "Museo Municipal Taurino Francisco Montes is located in Chiclana de la Frontera, in the province of C\u00e1diz, Andalusia, southwestern Spain."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The International Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation (IBJJF) is a for-profit company that hosts several of the biggest Brazilian jiu-jitsu (BJJ) tournaments in the world, including the World Jiu-Jitsu Championship, World No-Gi Championship, Pan Jiu-Jitsu Championship, and European Open Jiu-Jitsu Championship. The federation was created by Carlos Gracie, Jr., who is the head of one of the largest Brazilian jiu-jitsu associations, Gracie Barra. The IBJJF uses the ruleset of the Confedera\u00e7\u00e3o Brasileira de Jiu-Jitsu (CBJJ). On October 11, 2020, the IBJJF announced that they will begin to allow both heel hooks and knee-reaping for all brown and black belts competing in no-gi tournaments, starting on an undisclosed date in 2021.\n Question: Given a reference text about the IBJJF, provide two tournaments organized by IBJJ and the ruleset used by these tournaments.", "output": "World No-Gi Championship and Pan Jiu-Jitsu Championship are two tournaments organized by the IBJJF. They follow the ruleset of the CBJJ."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The first prototype was entirely mechanical. Three prototypes were made, and they were improved over one year. In the meantime, sure of having found a solution to the problem of taking 360\u00b0 photos, Leme applied for a patent registration, a process that went on for some years.\n Question: How many prototypes were made?", "output": "Three prototypes were made and improved over one year."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: He was a member of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation Board of Directors for five years from 1999. He was chair of the National Childcare Accreditation Council for four years from 1996 to 1999. He was president of the Association for the Blind of WA from 1995 to 1999. He was president of the League of Help for the Sick and Elderly of WA from 1995 to 1997. In December 2001 he resigned as chairman of the Fremantle Football Club in the wake of revelations that the club had exceeded the salary cap for the 2001 season. He was a member of the Board of the Western Australian Cricket Association from 2004 to 2012.\n Question: here is some information about Ross McLean, how many years was Ross president of the Leavue of help for sick and elderly?", "output": "2 years, between 1995 to 1997."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 3, also known as IGFBP-3, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IGFBP3 gene. IGFBP-3 is one of six IGF binding proteins (IGFBP-1 to IGFBP-6) that have highly conserved structures and bind the insulin-like growth factors IGF-1 and IGF-2 with high affinity. IGFBP-7, sometimes included in this family, shares neither the conserved structural features nor the high IGF affinity. Instead, IGFBP-7 binds IGF1R, which blocks IGF-1 and IGF-2 binding, resulting in apoptosis. \n\nFunction\nIGFBP-3 was first isolated, characterized, and quantitated in human plasma, in 1986. It has well-documented functions in the circulation, in the extracellular environment, and inside cells. It is the main IGF transport protein in the bloodstream, where it carries the growth factors predominantly in stable complexes that contain the binding protein, either IGF-1 or IGF-2, and a third protein called the acid-labile subunit or ALS.\n Question: When was IGFBP3 first characterized?", "output": "The Insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 3 or IGFBP-3 was first isolated, characterized, and quantitated in human plasma, in 1986."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As of 2023 the SR-71 holds the world record it set in 1976 as the fastest air-breathing manned aircraft.\n Question: What is the fastest air-breathing manned aircraft?", "output": "As of 2023 the SR-71 is the fastest air-breathing manned aircraft. It can reach a maximum speed of Mach 3.3"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: USS Rachel Seaman was a wooden schooner purchased by the Union Navy during the American Civil War.\n Question: Is the USS Rachel Seaman made of metal?", "output": "No, it is made of wood."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Tampa Bay Buccaneers are a professional American football team based in Tampa, Florida. The Buccaneers compete in the National Football League (NFL) as a member club of the league's National Football Conference (NFC) South division. The club joined the NFL in 1976 as an expansion team, along with the Seattle Seahawks, and played its first season in the American Football Conference (AFC) West division. Prior to the 1977 season, Tampa Bay switched conferences and divisions with Seattle, becoming a member of the NFC Central division. As a result of the league's realignment prior to the 2002 season, the Buccaneers joined three former NFC West teams to form the NFC South. The club is owned by the Glazer family and plays its home games at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa.\n\nThe Buccaneers have won two Super Bowl championships and, along with the Baltimore Ravens, are the only two NFL franchises who are undefeated in multiple Super Bowl appearances. They were regarded as a perennial losing franchise for most of their first two decades due to suffering 26 consecutive losses in their first two seasons (including a winless inaugural season) and 14 consecutive losing seasons from 1983 to 1996. Despite these early struggles, Tampa Bay is the first post-merger expansion team to clinch a division title, win a playoff game, and host a conference championship; feats they accomplished by their fourth season in 1979. The team's image improved by the time of their first championship in 2002, also the first for a franchise built after the merger, but they would not win another playoff game until their second Super Bowl championship season in 2020. Concurrent to the lack of success outside of their Super Bowl wins, the Buccaneers hold the NFL's lowest winning percentage at .404.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, how many Super Bowls have they won.", "output": "The Buccaneers have won two Super Bowl championships."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Taylor Alison Swift (born December 13, 1989) is an American singer-songwriter. Her genre-spanning discography, songwriting and artistic reinventions have received critical praise and wide media coverage. Born in West Reading, Pennsylvania, Swift moved to Nashville at age 14 to become a country artist. She signed a songwriting deal with Sony/ATV Music Publishing in 2004 and a recording contract with Big Machine Records in 2005. Her 2006 self-titled debut album made her the first female country artist (singer) to write a U.S. platinum-certified album.\n\nSwift's next albums, Fearless (2008) and Speak Now (2010), explored country pop. The former's \"Love Story\" and \"You Belong with Me\" were the first country songs to top the U.S. pop and all-genre airplay charts, respectively. She experimented with rock and electronic styles on Red (2012), which featured her first Billboard Hot 100 number-one song, \"We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together\", and eschewed her country image in her synth-pop album, 1989 (2014), supported by chart-topping songs \"Shake It Off\", \"Blank Space\", and \"Bad Blood\". Media scrutiny inspired the urban-flavored Reputation (2017) and its number-one single \"Look What You Made Me Do\".\n Question: Based on the reference text, which album helped Taylor Swift shift from a country star to more of a pop star?", "output": "Taylor Swift's 1989 album was her first pop album, helping change her image from a country star."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries of Denmark (Danish: Minister for F\u00f8devarer, Landbrug og Fiskeri) is the politically appointed head of the Danish Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and a member of the Cabinet. Since 19 November 2020, Rasmus Prehn, from the social democratic party Socialdemokratiet, has served as Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries in the Mette Frederiksen I cabinet.\n\nThe ministry and the minister post was created in 1896; the ministry was originally named the Ministry of Agriculture. In 1929 the Directorate of Fishing was spun off into the separate Ministry of Shipping and Fishing, but that ministry was reabsorbed in 1935, and the name changed to Ministry of Agriculture and Fishing. In 1947 the Ministry of Fishing was created again, and the name changed to the Ministry of Agriculture, and this time it lasted until 1994 where it was again folded into the Ministry of Agriculture and Fishing. On 30 December 1996 the name of the ministry was changed to the current Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, often just called the Ministry of Food.\n Question: Given a reference text about Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries of Denmark, when was the position created and was was it named?", "output": "The Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries of Denmark position was created in 1896 and was originally named the Ministry of Agriculture."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A large language model (LLM) is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters (typically billions of weights or more), trained on large quantities of unlabelled text using self-supervised learning. LLMs emerged around 2018 and perform well at a wide variety of tasks. This has shifted the focus of natural language processing research away from the previous paradigm of training specialized supervised models for specific tasks.\n\nProperties\nThough the term large language model has no formal definition, it often refers to deep learning models having a parameter count on the order of billions or more. LLMs are general purpose models which excel at a wide range of tasks, as opposed to being trained for one specific task (such as sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or mathematical reasoning). The skill with which they accomplish tasks, and the range of tasks at which they are capable, seems to be a function of the amount of resources (data, parameter-size, computing power) devoted to them, in a way that is not dependent on additional breakthroughs in design.\n\nThough trained on simple tasks along the lines of predicting the next word in a sentence, neural language models with sufficient training and parameter counts are found to capture much of the syntax and semantics of human language. In addition, large language models demonstrate considerable general knowledge about the world, and are able to \"memorize\" a great quantity of facts during training.\n\nHallucinations\nMain article: Hallucination (artificial intelligence)\nIn artificial intelligence in general, and in large language models in particular, a \"hallucination\" is a confident response that does not seem to be justified by the model's training data.\n\nEmergent abilities\n\nOn a number of natural language benchmarks involving tasks such as question answering, models perform no better than random chance until they reach a certain scale (in this case, measured by training computation), at which point their performance sharply increases. These are examples of emergent abilities.\nUnpredictable abilities that have been observed in large language models but that were not present in simpler models (and that were not explicitly designed into the model) are usually called \"emergent abilities\". Researchers note that such abilities \"cannot be predicted simply by extrapolating the performance of smaller models\". These abilities are discovered rather than programmed-in or designed, in some cases only after the LLM has been publicly deployed. Hundreds of emergent abilities have been described. Examples include multi-step arithmetic, taking college-level exams, identifying the intended meaning of a word, chain-of-thought prompting, decoding the International Phonetic Alphabet, unscrambling a word\u2019s letters, identifying offensive content in paragraphs of Hinglish (a combination of Hindi and English), and generating a similar English equivalent of Kiswahili proverbs.\n\nArchitecture and training\nLarge language models have most commonly used the transformer architecture, which, since 2018, has become the standard deep learning technique for sequential data (previously, recurrent architectures such as the LSTM were most common). LLMs are trained in an unsupervised manner on unannotated text. A left-to-right transformer is trained to maximize the probability assigned to the next word in the training data, given the previous context. Alternatively, an LLM may use a bidirectional transformer (as in the example of BERT), which assigns a probability distribution over words given access to both preceding and following context. In addition to the task of predicting the next word or \"filling in the blanks\", LLMs may be trained on auxiliary tasks which test their understanding of the data distribution such as Next Sentence Prediction (NSP), in which pairs of sentences are presented and the model must predict whether they appear side-by-side in the training corpus.\n\nThe earliest LLMs were trained on corpora having on the order of billions of words. The first model in OpenAI's GPT series was trained in 2018 on BookCorpus, consisting of 985 million words. In the same year, BERT was trained on a combination of BookCorpus and English Wikipedia, totalling 3.3 billion words. In the years since then, training corpora for LLMs have increased by orders of magnitude, reaching up to hundreds of billions or trillions of tokens.\n\nLLMs are computationally expensive to train. A 2020 study estimated the cost of training a 1.5 billion parameter model (1-2 orders of magnitude smaller than the state of the art at the time) at $1.6 million.\n\nA 2020 analysis found that neural language models' capability (as measured by training loss) increased smoothly in a power law relationship with number of parameters, quantity of training data, and computation used for training. These relationships were tested over a wide range of values (up to seven orders of magnitude) and no attenuation of the relationship was observed at the highest end of the range (including for network sizes up to trillions of parameters).\n\nApplication to downstream tasks\nBetween 2018 and 2020, the standard method for harnessing an LLM for a specific natural language processing (NLP) task was to fine tune the model with additional task-specific training. It has subsequently been found that more powerful LLMs such as GPT-3 can solve tasks without additional training via \"prompting\" techniques, in which the problem to be solved is presented to the model as a text prompt, possibly with some textual examples of similar problems and their solutions.\n\nFine-tuning\nMain article: Fine-tuning (machine learning)\nFine-tuning is the practice of modifying an existing pretrained language model by training it (in a supervised fashion) on a specific task (e.g. sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, or part-of-speech tagging). It is a form of transfer learning. It generally involves the introduction of a new set of weights connecting the final layer of the language model to the output of the downstream task. The original weights of the language model may be \"frozen\", such that only the new layer of weights connecting them to the output are learned during training. Alternatively, the original weights may receive small updates (possibly with earlier layers frozen).\n\nPrompting\nSee also: Prompt engineering and Few-shot learning (natural language processing)\nIn the prompting paradigm, popularized by GPT-3, the problem to be solved is formulated via a text prompt, which the model must solve by providing a completion (via inference). In \"few-shot prompting\", the prompt includes a small number of examples of similar (problem, solution) pairs. For example, a sentiment analysis task of labelling the sentiment of a movie review could be prompted as follows:\n\nReview: This movie stinks.\nSentiment: negative\n\nReview: This movie is fantastic!\nSentiment:\n\nIf the model outputs \"positive\", then it has correctly solved the task. In zero-shot prompting, no solve examples are provided. An example of a zero-shot prompt for the same sentiment analysis task would be \"The sentiment associated with the movie review 'This movie is fantastic!' is\".\n\nFew-shot performance of LLMs has been shown to achieve competitive results on NLP tasks, sometimes surpassing prior state-of-the-art fine-tuning approaches. Examples of such NLP tasks are translation, question answering, cloze tasks, unscrambling words, and using a novel word in a sentence. The creation and optimisation of such prompts is called prompt engineering.\n\nInstruction tuning\nInstruction tuning is a form of fine-tuning designed to facilitate more natural and accurate zero-shot prompting interactions. Given a text input, a pretrained language model will generate a completion which matches the distribution of text on which it was trained. A naive language model given the prompt \"Write an essay about the main themes of Hamlet.\" might provide a completion such as \"A late penalty of 10% per day will be applied to submissions received after March 17.\" In instruction tuning, the language model is trained on many examples of tasks formulated as natural language instructions, along with appropriate responses. Various techniques for instruction tuning have been applied in practice. OpenAI's InstructGPT protocol involves supervised fine-tuning on a dataset of human-generated (prompt, response) pairs, followed by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), in which a reward function was learned based on a dataset of human preferences. Another technique, \"self-instruct\", fine-tunes the language model on a training set of examples which are themselves generated by an LLM (bootstrapped from a small initial set of human-generated examples).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Large language models, when did LLMs emerge?", "output": "Around 2018."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kang Se-jung (born January 15, 1982) is a South Korean actress. She made her entertainment debut as a singer for the K-pop girl group Papaya in 2000; the group released two albums before disbanding in 2001. Kang began acting full-time in 2004, and has appeared in television series such as Assorted Gems (2009) and Heartless City (2013). Upon turning to acting, she used the stage name Go Na-eun before reverting to use of her birth name in 2017.\n Question: List the television series Kang Se-jung appeared in", "output": "- Assorted Gems\n- Heartless City"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: John William Ferrell (/\u02c8f\u025br\u0259l/; born July 16, 1967) is an American actor, comedian, writer, and producer. Ferrell first established himself in the mid-1990s as a cast member on the NBC sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live, where he performed from 1995 to 2002, and has subsequently starred in comedy films such as Elf (2003), Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy (2004), Kicking & Screaming (2005), Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby (2006), Semi-Pro (2008), Step Brothers (2008), and Land of the Lost (2009). He founded the comedy website Funny or Die in 2007 with his writing partner Adam McKay. Other notable film roles include Stranger than Fiction (2006), The Other Guys (2010), The Campaign (2012), Get Hard (2015), Holmes & Watson (2018), and the animated films Curious George (2006), Megamind (2010) and The Lego Movie film franchise (2014\u20132019).\n\nFerrell is considered a member of the \"Frat Pack\", a generation of leading Hollywood comic actors who emerged in the late 1990s and the 2000s, including Jack Black, Ben Stiller, Steve Carell, Vince Vaughn, Paul Rudd, and brothers Owen and Luke Wilson. He received an Emmy Award nomination for his work on Saturday Night Live, and three Golden Globe Award nominations for acting in The Producers (2005) and Stranger than Fiction (2006) and for producing Vice (2018). He was also named the best comedian of 2015 in the British GQ Men of the Year awards. Ferrell received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on March 24, 2015.\n Question: Given a reference text about Will Ferrell, tell me where he kickstarted his career, what group of comic actors he is considered part of, and how many Golden Globe Award nominations he has.", "output": "Will Ferrell kickstarted his career on the NBC sketch comedy series \"Saturday Night Live\". He is considered part of the \"Frat Pack\", and has received three Golden Globe Award nominations."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pablo Emilio Escobar Gaviria (/\u02c8\u025bsk\u0259b\u0251\u02d0r/; Spanish: [\u02c8pa\u03b2lo es.ko\u02c8\u03b2\u031ea\u027e]; 1 December 1949 \u2013 2 December 1993) was a Colombian drug lord and narcoterrorist who was the founder and sole leader of the Medell\u00edn Cartel. Dubbed \"the king of cocaine\", Escobar was the wealthiest criminal in history, having amassed an estimated net worth of US$30 billion by the time of his death\u2014equivalent to $70 billion as of 2022\u2014while his drug cartel monopolized the cocaine trade into the United States in the 1980s and early 1990s.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Pablo Escobar, how much money did he have when he died?", "output": "Pablo Escobar had an estimated net worth of $30B when he died in 1993."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hot pot or hotpot (simplified Chinese: \u706b\u9505; traditional Chinese: \u706b\u934b; pinyin: hu\u01d2gu\u014d; lit. 'fire pot'), also known as soup-food or steamboat, is a dish whereby a heat source placed on the dining table keeps a pot of soup stock simmering, and a variety of Chinese foodstuffs and ingredients are served beside the pot for the diners to put into the hot stock.\n Question: Given a reference text that describes about hotpot, from which country does this dish originate?", "output": "Hot pot or Hotpot is originated from China."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cy Young was the oldest child born to Nancy (Mottmiller) and McKinzie Young, Jr., and was christened Denton True Young. He was of part German descent. The couple had four more children: Jesse Carlton, Alonzo, Ella, and Anthony. When the couple married, McKinzie's father gave him the 54 acres (220,000 m2) of farm land he owned. Young was born in Gilmore, a tiny farming community located in Washington Township, Tuscarawas County, Ohio. He was raised on one of the local farms and went by the name Dent Young in his early years. Young was also known as \"Farmer Young\" and \"Farmboy Young\". Young stopped his formal education after he completed the sixth grade so he could help out on the family's farm. In 1885, Young moved with his father to Nebraska, and in the summer of 1887, they returned to Gilmore.\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cy_Young\n Question: Given this reference text about Cy Young, what type of work did his family do while he was growing up, how many older siblings did he have, and what two states did he live in as a child?", "output": "Cy Young grew up in a farming family, did not have any older siblings (he was the oldest of five children) and he lives primarily in Ohio but also spent two years in Nebraska as a child."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The terrain of the Iberian Peninsula is largely mountainous. The major mountain systems are:\n\nThe Pyrenees and their foothills, the Pre-Pyrenees, crossing the isthmus of the peninsula so completely as to allow no passage except by mountain road, trail, coastal road or tunnel. Aneto in the Maladeta massif, at 3,404 m, is the highest point\n\nThe Mulhac\u00e9n, the highest peak in the Iberian Peninsula\nThe Cantabrian Mountains along the northern coast with the massive Picos de Europa. Torre de Cerredo, at 2,648 m, is the highest point\nThe Galicia/Tr\u00e1s-os-Montes Massif in the Northwest is made up of very old heavily eroded rocks. Pena Trevinca, at 2,127 m, is the highest point\nThe Sistema Ib\u00e9rico, a complex system at the heart of the peninsula, in its central/eastern region. It contains a great number of ranges and divides the watershed of the Tagus, Douro and Ebro rivers. Moncayo, at 2,313 m, is the highest point\nThe Sistema Central, dividing the Iberian Plateau into a northern and a southern half and stretching into Portugal (where the highest point of Continental Portugal (1,993 m) is located in the Serra da Estrela). Pico Almanzor in the Sierra de Gredos is the highest point, at 2,592 m\nThe Montes de Toledo, which also stretches into Portugal from the La Mancha natural region at the eastern end. Its highest point, at 1,603 m, is La Villuerca in the Sierra de Villuercas, Extremadura\nThe Sierra Morena, which divides the watershed of the Guadiana and Guadalquivir rivers. At 1,332 m, Ba\u00f1uela is the highest point\nThe Baetic System, which stretches between C\u00e1diz and Gibraltar and northeast towards Alicante Province. It is divided into three subsystems:\nPrebaetic System, which begins west of the Sierra Sur de Ja\u00e9n, reaching the Mediterranean Sea shores in Alicante Province. La Sagra is the highest point at 2,382 m.\nSubbaetic System, which is in a central position within the Baetic Systems, stretching from Cape Trafalgar in C\u00e1diz Province across Andalusia to the Region of Murcia. The highest point, at 2,027 m (6,650 ft), is Pe\u00f1a de la Cruz in Sierra Arana.\nPenibaetic System, located in the far southeastern area stretching between Gibraltar across the Mediterranean coastal Andalusian provinces. It includes the highest point in the peninsula, the 3,478 m high Mulhac\u00e9n in the Sierra Nevada.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the terrain of the Iberian Peninsula, tell me the highest point in the peninsula and its altitude.", "output": "The highest point in the Iberian Peninsula is Mulhacen, located within the Penibaetic System. Its altitude is 3,478 m, or 11,411 ft"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Warsaw has cold, sometimes snowy, cloudy winters, and warm, relatively sunny but frequently stormy summers. Spring and autumn can be unpredictable, highly prone to sudden weather changes; however, temperatures are usually mild, especially around May and September. The daily average temperature ranges between \u22121.5 \u00b0C (29 \u00b0F) in January and 19.7 \u00b0C (67.5 \u00b0F) in July and the mean year temperature is 9.0 \u00b0C (48.2 \u00b0F). Temperatures may reach 30 \u00b0C (86 \u00b0F) in the summer, although the effects of hot weather are usually offset by relatively low dew points and large diurnal temperature differences. Warsaw is Europe's sixth driest major city (driest in Central Europe), with yearly rainfall averaging 482 mm (19.0 in), the wettest month being July.\n Question: What is the coldest month in Warsaw and how cold does it get on average?", "output": "The coldest month in Warsaw is January. On average, the temperature then is \u22121.5 \u00b0C, which is 29 \u00b0F."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Faced with increasingly frequent and severe violence, military rule was widely accepted by the population of many countries as means to maintain order, and during the 1970s and 1980s a majority of African countries were controlled by military dictatorships. Territorial disputes between nations and rebellions by groups seeking independence were also common in independent African states. The most devastating of these was the Nigerian Civil War, fought between government forces and an Igbo separatist republic, which resulted in a famine that killed 1\u20132 million people. Two civil wars in Sudan, the first lasting from 1955 to 1972 and the second from 1983 to 2005, collectively killed around 3 million. Both were fought primarily on ethnic and religious lines.\n Question: Why were the majority of African countries controlled by military dictatorships during the 1970's and 1980's?", "output": "Military dictatorships were accepted as a means to maintain order in face of increasingly frequent and severe violence."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Parkrun (stylised as parkrun) is a collection of 5-kilometre (3.1 mi) events for walkers, runners and volunteers that take place every Saturday morning at more than 2,000 locations in 22 countries across six continents. Junior Parkrun (stylised as junior parkrun) is a spin-off event that provides a 2 kilometres (1+1\u20444 mi) event for children aged 4\u201314 on a Sunday morning. Parkrun events are free to enter and are delivered by volunteers, supported by a small group of staff at its headquarters.\n Question: What is parkrun", "output": "Parkrun is a community event that takes place each Saturday morning where entrants walk, jog, or run a 5-kilometre course. Events take place at a range of general locations including parks, forests, rivers, lakes, beaches, and nature reserves. The first ever parkrun event took place on 2 October 2004 in Bushy Park, London involving 13 runners. Today more than 3 million people across more than 2,000 locations in 22 countries participate in parkrun each week. Parkrun events are free to enter and are delivered by volunteers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: B\u00e9zier curves can be used in robotics to produce trajectories of an end-effector due to the virtue of the control polygon\u2019s ability to give a clear indication of whether the path is colliding with any nearby obstacle or object. Furthermore, joint space trajectories can be accurately differentiated using B\u00e9zier curves. Consequently, the derivatives of joint space trajectories are used in the calculation of the dynamics and control effort (torque profiles) of the robotic manipulator.\n Question: What is use of bezier curve in Robotics?", "output": "B\u00e9zier curves can be used in robotics to produce trajectories of an end-effector due to the virtue of the control polygon\u2019s ability to give a clear indication of whether the path is colliding with any nearby obstacle or object."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kennebunkport /\u02cck\u025bni\u02c8b\u028c\u014bk\u02ccp\u0254\u02d0rt/ is a resort town in York County, Maine, United States. The population was 3,629 people at the 2020 census. It is part of the Portland\u2013South Portland\u2013Biddeford metropolitan statistical area.\n\nThe town center, the area in and around Dock Square, is located along the Kennebunk River, approximately 1 mile (1.6 km) from the mouth of the river on the Atlantic Ocean. Historically a shipbuilding and fishing village, for well over a century the town has been a popular summer colony and seaside tourist destination. The Dock Square area has a district of souvenir shops, art galleries, schooner attractions, seafood restaurants, and bed and breakfasts. Cape Porpoise, while retaining its identity as a fishing harbor, has a very small village area with several restaurants, a church, grocery store, coffee shop, small library, and art gallery. Kennebunkport has a reputation as a summer haven for the upper class and is one of the wealthiest communities in the state of Maine. The Municipality of Kennebunkport includes the constituent villages of Kennebunkport Village, Cape Arundel & Colony Beach, the Cottage Coast, Wilde's District (Wildwood), Goose Rocks Beach, Turbatts Creek, Cape Porpoise Village, North Village Crossing (Townhouse Corner), among various other newer developments. The town is the home of Walker's Point, a summer estate of the Bush family.\n\nKennebunkport and neighboring towns Kennebunk and Arundel comprise school district RSU 21.\n\nThe Kennebunkport Christmas Prelude takes place annually in the town, beginning either in late November or early December.\n Question: Given a reference text about Kennebunkport, tell me its neighboring towns and where it is located.", "output": "Kennebunkport is located in York County, Maine and is neighbored by the towns of Kennebunk and Arundel."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Shulman was born in St. Paul, Minnesota, and raised in the city's Selby-Dale neighborhood. His father Abraham, a house painter, and his mother Bessie Karchmar were Jewish immigrants from Belarus.\n\nAs a student at the University of Minnesota, where he was classmate of Thomas Heggen, Thomas R. St. George and Norman Katkov, Shulman wrote a column for the Minnesota Daily as well as pieces for Ski-U-Mah, the college humor magazine. His writing humorously exaggerated campus culture. Shortly after Shulman graduated in 1942, an agent from Doubleday persuaded Shulman to send him some clips, which resulted in the campus satire Barefoot Boy With Cheek, a surprise 1943 bestseller. In 1947 Shulman adapted Barefoot Boy into a musical of the same name.\n Question: What was written in Ski-U-Mah?", "output": "Ski-U-Mah was the college humor magazine for University of Minnesota. Shulman wrote pieces for Ski-U-Mah humorously exaggerating campus culture.\n\nIt is not clear from the text what else was written in Ski-U-Mah, but presumably there were other humorous pieces written about topics relating to University of Minnesota."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: World War II changed the political alignment and social structure of the globe and set the foundation for the international order of the world's nations during the Cold War and into present day. The United Nations was established to foster international co-operation and prevent future conflicts, with the victorious great powers\u2014China, France, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States\u2014becoming the permanent members of its Security Council. The Soviet Union and the United States emerged as rival superpowers, setting the stage for the nearly half-century-long Cold War. In the wake of European devastation, the influence of its great powers waned, triggering the decolonization of Africa and Asia. Most countries whose industries had been damaged moved towards economic recovery and expansion. Political and economic integration, especially in Europe, began as an effort to forestall future hostilities, end pre-war enmities, and forge a sense of common identity.\n Question: Which two of the world's \"super power\" nations engaged in a cold war, following World War II?", "output": "The Soviet Union and the United States."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Island Bird is a Chesapeake Bay log canoe, built in 1882, by William Sidney Covington in Tilghman, Maryland. She is a 27 ft 4 in (8.33 m) sailing log canoe with a racing rig, a sharp stem with a longhead bow, and a sharp, raking stern. She is one of the smallest boats in the active racing fleet, with a beam of only 5 ft 6.5 in (1.689 m). The boat is privately owned by the descendants of Mr. Covington and has been racing every season since 1949. She one of the last 22 surviving traditional Chesapeake Bay racing log canoes that carry on a tradition of racing on the Eastern Shore of Maryland that has existed since the 1840s. She is located at St. Michaels, Talbot County, Maryland.\n Question: Who owns the canoe named The Island Bird?", "output": "The descendants of William Sidney Covington"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Strength training also provides functional benefits. Stronger muscles improve posture, provide better support for joints, and reduce the risk of injury from everyday activities.\n\nProgressive resistance training may improve function, quality of life and reduce pain in people at risk of fracture, with rare adverse effects. Weight-bearing exercise also helps to prevent osteoporosis and to improve bone strength in those with osteoporosis. For many people in rehabilitation or with an acquired disability, such as following stroke or orthopaedic surgery, strength training for weak muscles is a key factor to optimize recovery.\n Question: What are some physical health benefits from doing strength training exercises?", "output": "Some examples of physical benefits from strength training include improve posture, better joint support, and reduced risk of injury from everyday activities. In addition, strength training exercises have also been shown to help prevent osteoporosis and improve overall bone strength."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1931 the Ford Motor Company relocated from Trafford Park in Manchester, to a larger new plant in Dagenham, which was already the location of supplier Briggs Motorway Bodies. A 500-acre (200 ha) riverside site was developed to become Europe's largest car plant, a vast vertically integrated site with its own blast furnaces and power station, importing iron ore and exporting finished vehicles. By the 1950s Ford had taken over Briggs at Dagenham and its other sites at Doncaster, Southampton, Croydon and Romford. At its peak the Dagenham plant had 4,000,000 square feet (370,000 m2) of floor space and employed over 40,000 people, although this number gradually fell during the final three decades of the 20th century as production methods advanced and Ford invested in other European factories as well. Some of Britain's best selling cars, including the Fiesta, Escort, Cortina and Sierra, were produced at the plant over the next 71 years.\n Question: To which town in the UK did the Ford Motor Company relocate to in 1931?", "output": "Dagenham"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"It's a Great Day to Be Alive\" is a song written by Darrell Scott. It was originally recorded by American country music artist Jon Randall, of whose version was to have been included on an album titled Great Day to Be Alive, which would have been released in the late 1990s via BNA Records. Scott released his own version of his song on his 1997 album Aloha from Nashville.\n\nThe song was also recorded by The Sky Kings, an American country-rock supergroup consisting of Bill Lloyd (Foster & Lloyd), Rusty Young (Poco), and John Cowan (New Grass Revival) around 1995/1996. Their version sat unreleased until Rhino Handmade released the compilation \"From Out Of The Blue\" in 2000.\n\nThe song was later covered more famously by American country music artist Travis Tritt. It was released in December 2000 as the second single from his album Down the Road I Go. It peaked at number 2 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart and at number 33 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.\n\nIt was subsequently covered by Pat Green and Cory Morrow on their March 2001 album Songs We Wish We'd Written and by Niko Moon for his 2021 album Good Time.\n Question: Given the reference text below, who sang \"It's a Great Day to Be Alive\"?", "output": "\"It's a Great Day to Be Alive\" is a song written by Darrell Scott which was released in December 2000."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kubernetes (\u03ba\u03c5\u03b2\u03b5\u03c1\u03bd\u03ae\u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 kubern\u1e17t\u0113s, Greek for \"steersman, navigator\" or \"guide\", and the etymological root of cybernetics) was announced by Google in mid-2014. The project was created by Joe Beda, Brendan Burns, and Craig McLuckie, who were soon joined by other Google engineers, including Brian Grant and Tim Hockin.\n\nThe design and development of Kubernetes was influenced by Google's Borg cluster manager. Many of its top contributors had previously worked on Borg; they codenamed Kubernetes \"Project 7\" after the Star Trek ex-Borg character Seven of Nine and gave its logo a seven-spoked wheel. Unlike Borg, which was written in C++, Kubernetes source code is in the Go language.\n\nKubernetes 1.0 was released on July 21, 2015. Google worked with the Linux Foundation to form the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) and offered Kubernetes as a seed technology. In February 2016, the Helm package manager for Kubernetes was released.\n Question: Based on this wikipedia paragraph, what original tool was Kubernetes based on?", "output": "Kubernetes was originally based on Google's Borg cluster manager tool."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Finding Farley is a 2009 documentary directed by Leanne Allison as she and her husband Karsten Heuer travel across Canada in the literary footsteps of the Canadian writer Farley Mowat.\n\nHeuer, a biologist and author, had written a book on his experiences making the documentary Being Caribou, in which he and Allison traveled 1,500 kilometres (930 mi) by foot across Arctic tundra following a herd of 120,000 Porcupine caribou. After reading a draft of Heuer's account, Mowat invited them to visit him at his summer farm in Cape Breton Island.\n\nAccompanied by their two-year-old son Zev and dog Willow, the couple left their home in Canmore in May 2007 for a 5,000 kilometres (3,100 mi), six-month trek east across Canada. From Canmore, 100 kilometres west of Calgary, they canoed to Hudson Bay, visiting many of the settings that Mowat wrote about in Never Cry Wolf, Lost in the Barrens and People of the Deer. From Hudson Bay, their plan was to travel by sea to northern Labrador, the setting of Mowat's stories such as The Serpent's Coil, Grey Seas Under, Sea of Slaughter and A Whale for the Killing. From Newfoundland and Labrador they planned a final journey by water, arriving at Cape Breton near the end of October. Finding Farley was the top film at the 2010 Banff Mountain Film Festival, receiving both the Grand Prize and People's Choice awards.\n Question: What year did the trek in Finding Farley end?", "output": "2007.  Started in May 2007 and lasted 6 months.  Which would have been November 2007."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 2018, the United States Air Force (USAF) and Boeing discussed the F-15X or Advanced F-15, a proposed single-seat variant based on the F-15QA to replace USAF F-15C/Ds. Improvements included the AMBER weapons rack to carry up to 22 air-to-air missiles, infrared search and track, advanced avionics and electronic warfare equipment, AESA radar, and revised structure with a service life of 20,000 hours. Single and two-seat variants were proposed, called F-15CX and F-15EX respectively, with identical capabilities. The USAF opted for the two-seat variant, which can be flown either by a single pilot or by a pilot and WSO for complex missions and, someday, controlling collaborative combat aircraft. One reason for this decision is that only two\u2013seat F-15 models remained in production.\n\nThe USAF bought the F-15EX to maintain fleet size as F-22 production ended, the F-35 was delayed, and its F-15Cs aged. Although it is not expected to survive against modern air defenses by 2028, the F-15EX can perform homeland and airbase defense, enforce no-fly zones against limited air defenses, and deploy standoff munitions. In July 2020, the U.S. Defense Department ordered eight F-15EXs over three years for $1.2 billion. In August 2020, the USAF announced plans to replace F-15Cs in the Florida and Oregon Air National Guards with F-15EXs. The F-15EX made its maiden flight on 2 February 2021. The first F-15EX was delivered to the USAF in March 2021, and was flown to Eglin Air Force Base in Florida for further testing.\n\nOn 7 April 2021, its official name Eagle II was announced. The FY2021 defense appropriations bill funded F-15EX procurement at $1.23 billion for 12 aircraft, bringing total orders to 20 aircraft. By May 2022, the USAF had ordered 144 F-15EXs. It has proposed reducing its orders to 80. The first operational F-15EXs are not to receive conformal fuel tanks. The Air Force's proposed budget for fiscal 2024 includes funds to buy 24 more F-15EXs, which would bring the planned fleet up to 104 aircraft.\n Question: Why is the F-15EX Eagle II an ideal aircraft not an ideal aircraft for conducting modern offensive war fighting?", "output": "The Boeing F-15EX Eagle II is not expected to survive against modern air defenses by 2028.  Due to the long time horizon for military hardware acquisition this does not make this aircraft suitable for many offensive war fighting missions over the coming years."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Wimbledon Championships, commonly known simply as Wimbledon, is the oldest tennis tournament in the world and is widely regarded as the most prestigious. It has been held at the All England Club in Wimbledon, London, since 1877 and is played on outdoor grass courts, with retractable roofs over the two main courts since 2019.\n Question: What is Wimbledon?", "output": "The Wimbledon Championships is the oldest tennis tournament in the world. Commonly referred to as Wimbledon, it is one of the four Gran Slam tennis tournaments, alongside the Australian Open, the French Open, and the US Open."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the UK, the recommended daily values for magnesium are 300 mg for men and 270 mg for women. In the U.S. the Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) are 400 mg for men ages 19\u201330 and 420 mg for older; for women 310 mg for ages 19\u201330 and 320 mg for older.\n Question: Given this reference test, what is the daily recommended amount of magnesium for men in the UK?", "output": "The daily recommended amount of magnesium for men in the UK is 300 mg."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Racial categories have historically been used as a way to enable an oppressive figure or group to discriminate against other groups or individuals which were seen as different from that of the oppressor. In nineteenth and early twentieth century Europe, artwork was a common form of racialization which targeted countries in the Middle East and Asia. The artwork, predominantly paintings, were portrayed in order to instill prejudice in the Western populations through sexualizing and manipulating images. One of the most prominent examples of Orientalist work in art is a piece by Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix titled Women of Algiers in their Apartment. Dating back to 1834, it portrays three women resting in a harem in exotic clothing while an African woman is dressed in plain clothing, depicting her role as a servant. Fine textiles, hookahs, and other paraphernalia adorn the room, which represents a European fantasy of an exotic scene. Attempts to portray these cultures as strange, foreign and exotic through Orientalism led to intolerance towards the Arab and Asian communities in Europe and the United States. Others argue that Delacroix, who travelled in North Africa sketching extensively, was depicting a realistic scene of the era based on his first-hand knowledge and experience. In such an interpretation the clothing, for example, is consistent with the times, as Arab North Africans dressed differently from Europeans, and kept black slaves who would not have been treated as equals.\n Question: What is the primary information in this paragraph?", "output": "The paragraph discussed racial manipulation in the 19th to 20th centuries. It considers Europeans to be discriminative against people from the Middle East, Asia and North Africa, and uses artist expressions to communicate and manipulate these prejudice to their general population."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Universal Data Element Framework (UDEF) was  a controlled vocabulary developed by The Open Group. It provided a framework for categorizing, naming, and indexing data. It assigned to every item of data a structured alphanumeric tag plus a controlled vocabulary name that describes the meaning of the data. This allowed relating data elements to similar elements defined by other organizations.\n\nUDEF defined a Dewey-decimal like code for each concept. For example, an \"employee number\" is often used in human resource management. It has a UDEF tag a.5_12.35.8 and a controlled vocabulary description \"Employee.PERSON_Employer.Assigned.IDENTIFIER\".\n\nUDEF has been superseded by the Open Data Element Framework (O-DEF).\n Question: Given a reference text about The Universal Data Element Framework (UDEF), tell me how the framework is used.", "output": "The UDEF is a framework for categorizing, naming, and indexing data."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A flashcard or flash card (also known as an index card) is a card bearing information on both sides, which is intended to be used as an aid in memorization. Each flashcard bears a question on one side and an answer on the other. Flashcards are often used to memorize vocabulary, historical dates, formulas or any subject matter that can be learned via a question-and-answer format. Flashcards can be virtual (part of a flashcard software), or physical.\n Question: Given this paragraph about flashcards, is flashcard useful for learning painting?", "output": "No. Flashcards are useful for learning things based on memorization via a question-and-answer format. Painting is a creative activity. It's unlikely to be learned by memorization of existing materials. Therefore, flashcard won't be useful for learning"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Historically, the world's tallest man-made structure was the Great Pyramid of Giza in Egypt, which held the position for over 3800 years until the construction of Lincoln Cathedral in 1311. The Strasbourg Cathedral in France, completed in 1439, was the world's tallest building until 1874.\n\n \n\nThe first skyscraper was pioneered in Chicago with the 138 ft (42.1 m) Home Insurance Building in 1885. The United States would remain the location of the world's tallest building throughout the 20th century until 1998, when the Petronas Towers were completed. Since then, two other buildings have gained the title: Taipei 101 in 2004 and Burj Khalifa in 2010. Since the beginning of the 21st century, the Middle East, China, and Southeast Asia have experienced booms in skyscraper construction\n Question: Given the following paragraph about the history of tallest buildings, which was the first skyscraper and when was it build?", "output": "The first skyscraper was the Home Insurance Building in Chicago. It was build in 1885."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Aloy (Ashly Burch) is cast out from the Nora tribe at birth and raised by a fellow outcast named Rost (JB Blanc). As a child (Ava Potter), Aloy obtains a Focus, an augmented reality device that gives her special perceptive abilities. Aloy becomes curious about her origins and is told by Rost that if she wins the Proving, a competition to earn the right to become a member of the Nora, the tribe's Matriarchs might concede this information. Aloy spends some years training in combat and survival under Rost's instruction. After coming of age, Aloy participates in the Proving; she wins the competition, but masked cultists attack the Nora. Rost sacrifices himself to save Aloy from their leader, Helis (Crispin Freeman). When Aloy awakens, the Matriarchs explain that Aloy was found as an infant before a sealed door within the Nora's sacred mountain and that these suspicious origins were the reason for her being an outcast. The Matriarchs name Aloy a \"Seeker,\" allowing her to leave their lands in pursuit of the cultists. Aloy eventually learns that the cultists are part of a splinter Carja faction called the Eclipse and that Aloy was targeted due to her resemblance to an Old World scientist named Elisabet Sobeck (also voiced by Burch). Aloy locates the ruined corporate campus of Faro Automated Solutions and discovers that the Old World was destroyed nearly a thousand years ago after Faro lost control of its automated peacekeeper military robots. The robots, which could self-replicate and consume biomass, overran the planet and engulfed the biosphere, stripping Earth of life. Zero Dawn, a project spearheaded by Sobeck, was initiated to create an automated terraforming system to deactivate the robots and restore life to Earth.\n Question: Based on the given passage tell me who masked cultists are?", "output": "The masked cultists attacked the Nora when Aloy won the proving competition. Their leader was named Helis. The cultists were part of a splinter Carja faction called the Eclipse and wanted to kill Aloy due to her resemblance to an Old World scientist named Elisabet Sobeck."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Av\u012bci or Avici (Sanskrit and Pali for \"without waves\"; Chinese: \u7121\u9593\u5730\u7344 or \u963f\u9f3b\u5730\u7344; Japanese: \u7121\u9593\u5730\u7344 or \u963f\u9f3b\u5730\u7344; Burmese: \u1021\u101d\u102e\u1005\u102d\u1004\u101b\u1032) is one of the hells (naraka) in Hinduism and Buddhism. In Hinduism, it is one of the twenty-eight hells located in the kingdom of Yama, where individuals are reborn for bearing false witness and outright lying while transacting business or giving charity. In Buddhism, it is the lowest level of the Naraka or \"hell\" realm, with the most suffering, into which the dead who have committed grave misdeeds may be reborn. It is said to be a cube 20,000 yojanas (240,000 to 300,000 kilometers) on each side, buried deep underneath the divine (nonvisible) earth. Av\u012bci is often translated into English as \"interminable\" or \"incessant\", referring to suffering without periods of respite, although it is believed to be ultimately impermanent.\n Question: What does Avici stand for", "output": "There was a famous Swedish DJ called Avicii and there is Avici that is one of the hells (naraka) in Hinduism and Buddhism. In Hinduism, it is one of the twenty-eight hells located in the kingdom of Yama, where individuals are reborn for bearing false witness and outright lying while transacting business or giving charity.\n\nIn Buddhism, it is the lowest level of the Naraka or \"hell\" realm, with the most suffering, into which the dead who have committed grave misdeeds may be reborn. It is said to be a cube 20,000 yojanas (240,000 to 300,000 kilometers) on each side, buried deep underneath the divine (nonvisible) earth. Avici is often translated into English as \"interminable\" or \"incessant\", referring to suffering without periods of respite, although it is believed to be ultimately impermanent."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: There are ten different eye layouts\u2014indeed every technological method of capturing an optical image commonly used by human beings, with the exceptions of zoom and Fresnel lenses, occur in nature. Eye types can be categorised into \"simple eyes\", with one concave photoreceptive surface, and \"compound eyes\", which comprise a number of individual lenses laid out on a convex surface. Note that \"simple\" does not imply a reduced level of complexity or acuity. Indeed, any eye type can be adapted for almost any behaviour or environment. The only limitations specific to eye types are that of resolution\u2014the physics of compound eyes prevents them from achieving a resolution better than 1\u00b0. Also, superposition eyes can achieve greater sensitivity than apposition eyes, so are better suited to dark-dwelling creatures. Eyes also fall into two groups on the basis of their photoreceptor's cellular construction, with the photoreceptor cells either being cilliated (as in the vertebrates) or rhabdomeric. These two groups are not monophyletic; the cnidaria also possess cilliated cells,  and some gastropods, as well as some annelids possess both.\n\nSome organisms have photosensitive cells that do nothing but detect whether the surroundings are light or dark, which is sufficient for the entrainment of circadian rhythms. These are not considered eyes because they lack enough structure to be considered an organ, and do not produce an image.\n Question: Given this paragraph about different types of eyes, how are eye types categorized and why?", "output": "Eyes are categorized into two types, \"simple eyes\" and \"compound eyes\". In this case, \"simple eyes\" do not mean that they have reduced complexity or acuity, but rather that they have one concave photoreceptive surface. This is in contrast to \"compound eyes\" which are comprised of a number of individual lenses on a convex surface. In other words, eyes fall into two groups based on their photoreceptor's cellular construction either being cilliated (as in the vertebrates) or rhabdomeric."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bull sharks are large and stout, with females being larger than males. The bull shark can be up to 81 cm (2 ft 8 in) in length at birth. Adult female bull sharks average 2.4 m (8 ft) long and typically weigh 130 kg (290 lb), whereas the slightly smaller adult male averages 2.25 m (7 ft) and 95 kg (209 lb). While a maximum size of 3.5 m (11 ft) is commonly reported, a single record exists of a female specimen of exactly 4.0 m (13 ft). A 3.25 m (10.7 ft) long pregnant individual reached 450 kg (990 lb). Bull sharks are wider and heavier than other requiem sharks of comparable length, and are grey on top and white below. The second dorsal fin is smaller than the first. The bull shark's caudal fin is longer and lower than that of the larger sharks, and it has a small snout, and lacks an interdorsal ridge.\n Question: According to this paragraph about bull sharks, how long are male adult sharks in meters?", "output": "Male adult bull sharks average 2.25 meters in length."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The title of their top-rated show changed to The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show on September 26, 1936. One successful episode, \"Grandpa's 92nd Birthday,\" aired July 8, 1940. In 1941 they moved from comedy patter into a successful sitcom format, continuing with shows on NBC and CBS until May 17, 1950. As in the early days of radio, the sponsor's name became the show title, such as Maxwell House Coffee Time (1945\u201349).\n Question: If the sponsor of the Burns and Allen show was Pee Wee Herman's Big Adventure, the show would be called what?", "output": "The show title would be Adventure Time with Pee-Wee Herman."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In India and Pakistan, where it is commonly known as nimbu paani, and in Bangladesh, lemonades may also contain salt and/or ginger juice. Shikanjvi is a traditional lemonade from this region, and can also be flavored with saffron, cumin and other spices.\n Question: How to make Indian Lemonade?", "output": "Lemonade is typically made with sugar, lemons and water. The Indian version, commonly known as nimbu paani, is made a bit differently.\n\nIngredients\n- 1 lime's juice\n- 2 teaspoons granulated sugar\n- 1 teaspoons black salt \n- 1 teaspoon cumin powder (optional) \n- Ice (optional and as needed)\n- 1 cup water or sparking water or soda water\n\nMix ingredient together and stir for 10-15 seconds in a glass\n\nSome tips\n- If you don't have granulated sugar, you can use simple syrup\n- You may add some crushed mint leaves"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1988, due to the relationship he had built up with Honda throughout the 1987 season with Lotus, and with the approval of McLaren's number-one driver and then-double world champion, Alain Prost, Senna joined the McLaren team. The foundation for a fierce competition between Senna and Prost was laid, culminating in a number of dramatic race incidents between the two over the next five years. However, the experienced pair also quickly realized, despite their personal rivalry, they had to work together, especially in testing, to keep ahead of their main opposition from Ferrari, Williams, Benetton and Lotus.\n Question: Given this text, who was Mclaren's number-one driver in 1988", "output": "In 1988, according to this text Alain Prost was McLaren's number one driver"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Day for Night is the fourth studio album by the Canadian rock band The Tragically Hip. It is named for the film of the same name.\n Question: What is the fourth album from The Tragically Hip?", "output": "Day for Night is the Tragically Hip's 4th studio album released in 1994"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Black Bear Road is open a few months of the year, from late summer (usually the last week of July) to early fall. The road is traveled only downhill from Red Mountain Pass \u2014 except for the annual Jeeper's Jamboree in which travel is reversed for one day only. The start of the trail was formerly marked along U.S. 550 with a sign that read:\n Question: Can someone drive on Black Bear Road all year?", "output": "No, it is only open for a few months of the year."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: McKinsey & Company is a global management consulting firm founded in 1926 by University of Chicago professor James O. McKinsey, that offers professional services to corporations, governments, and other organizations. McKinsey is the oldest and largest of the \"Big Three\" management consultancies (MBB), the world's three largest strategy consulting firms by revenue. The firm mainly focuses on the finances and operations of their clients.\n\nUnder the leadership of Marvin Bower, McKinsey expanded into Europe during the 1940s and 1950s. In the 1960s, McKinsey's Fred Gluck\u2014along with Boston Consulting Group's Bruce Henderson, Bill Bain at Bain & Company, and Harvard Business School's Michael Porter\u2014transformed corporate culture. A 1975 publication by McKinsey's John L. Neuman introduced the business practice of \"overhead value analysis\" that contributed to a downsizing trend that eliminated many jobs in middle management.\n Question: What is MBB and what does it stand for?", "output": "MBB is in reference to the \"Big Three\" management consultancies. From the passage, it isn't clear exactly what it stands for, but McKinsey is included in MBB as it is the oldest and largest of the group."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kubernetes (/\u02cck(j)u\u02d0b\u0259r\u02c8n\u025bt\u026as, -\u02c8ne\u026at\u026as, -\u02c8ne\u026ati\u02d0z, -\u02c8n\u025bti\u02d0z/, commonly abbreviated K8s) is an open-source container orchestration system for automating software deployment, scaling, and management. Originally designed by Google, the project is now maintained by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation.\n\nThe name Kubernetes originates from Greek, meaning 'helmsman' or 'pilot'. Kubernetes is often abbreviated as K8s, counting the eight letters between the K and the s (a numeronym).\n\nKubernetes works with containerd and CRI-O. Its suitability for running and managing large cloud-native workloads has led to widespread adoption of it in the data center. There are multiple distributions of this platform \u2013 from ISVs as well as hosted-on cloud offerings from all the major public cloud vendors.\n Question: Based on this paragraph from Wikipedia, what's the origin of the word Kubernetes?", "output": "Kubernetes originates from the Greek word for Helmsman."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cave of the Crystals or Giant Crystal Cave (Spanish: Cueva de los cristales) is a cave connected to the Naica Mine at a depth of 300 metres (980 ft), in Naica, Chihuahua, Mexico. It takes the form of a chamber within the limestone host rock of the mine, and is about 109-metre (358 ft) long with a volume of 5,000 to 6,000 cubic metres (180,000 to 210,000 cu ft).\n\nThe chamber contains giant selenite crystals (gypsum, CaSO4 \u00b7 2 H2O), some of the largest natural crystals ever found. The largest is 11.40 metres (37.4 ft), with a volume of about 5 cubic metres (180 cu ft), and an estimated mass of 12 tonnes. When not flooded, the cave is extremely hot, with air temperatures reaching up to 58 \u00b0C (136 \u00b0F) with 90 to 99 percent humidity. This is comparable to temperature records in Death Valley, but with much wetter air. The cave is relatively unexplored because of these factors. Without proper protection, people can only endure approximately ten minutes of exposure at a time.\n\nThe cave was discovered in April 2000 by brothers Juan and Pedro S\u00e1nchez while drilling in the mine. As of October 2015, the mine had reflooded and the cavern filled once more with the water rich in minerals required for the crystals to grow.\n\nA group of scientists in the Naica Project have been studying these caverns.\n Question: Why is the Cave of the Crystals or Giant Crystal Cave closed to the public?", "output": "The conditions in the cave are not hospitable, extreme heat and humidity, sharp slippery crystals are lethal for humans."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Kaziranga Elephant Festival is a yearly elephant festival held in the Kaziranga National Park of Assam for the conservation and protection of Asiatic elephant. The festival is jointly organised by the Forest Department and Tourism Department of Assam with an objective to highlight and find ways to resolve the increasing man-elephant conflict. Hundreds of domestic Asiatic elephants, decorated from head to toe, participate in the program. They take part in parade, races, football and dance earning praises from the spectators.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Kaziranga Elephant Festival, tell me who organizes it.", "output": "The Kaziranga Elephant Festival is organized by the Forest and Tourism Departments of Assam."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Manewra (Maneora) is a small village in Phalodi tehsil, Jodhpur district, Rajasthan, India. Its population is one thousand.\n\nMost of the people in the village are Bishnoi, subcaste Bhanwal, but in ten houses there are Meghwal, and in one Lohar.\n\nManewra is situated near Champasar (4 km.), Ajasar (5 km.), Kharia (4 km0, choutin/laxmannagar (11 km.) and Chadi 15 km . Its postal pin code is 342312.\n\nIn this village two hundred person are in government service. Most are in the Indian army and some are teachers. Other are farmers, but agriculture depends on the weather, as there are no facilities for irrigation water, so villagers depend on the rainy season.\n Question: What percentage of Manewra's population work for the government?", "output": "20 percent. 200 / 1000 = 20%"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: TELLURIDE \u2014\u2014>\nCITY OF GOLD\n12 MILES - 2 HOURS\nYOU DON'T HAVE TO BE\nCRAZY TO DRIVE THIS\nROAD - BUT IT HELPS\n\nJEEPS ONLY\n Question: Can someone drive a bicycle on this road?", "output": "No.  Jeeps only."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Ghouli\" is the fifth episode of the eleventh season of the American science fiction television series The X-Files. The episode was written and directed by James Wong. The tagline for this episode is \"You see what I want you to see\". Though not originally billed as a mythology episode, \"Ghouli\" helps to explore the series' overarching mythology and serves as the second of three mythology episodes of the season following the season premiere.\n\nThe show centers on FBI special agents who work on unsolved paranormal cases called X-Files; focusing on the investigations of Fox Mulder (David Duchovny), and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) after their reinstatement in the FBI. In this episode, A pair of teenage girls attack one another, each believing the other to be a monster, known as \"Ghouli.\" Mulder and Scully find that their investigation leads back to their long-lost son, William.\n Question: Given a reference text about \"Ghouli\" tell me what happens in the episode.", "output": "In the episode \"Ghouli\", Fox Mulder and Dana Scully investigate a pair of teenage girls that attack one another believing the other is a monster."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Telangana (/\u02cct\u025bl\u0259n\u02c8\u0261\u0251\u02d0n\u0259/ (listen); Telugu: [\u02c8tela\u014b\u0261a\u02d0\u0273a], Urdu: [\u02c8t\u026al\u0259\u014b\u0261\u0251\u02d0na] (listen)) is a state in India situated on the south-central stretch of the Indian peninsula on the high Deccan Plateau. It is the eleventh-largest state and the twelfth-most populated state in India with a geographical area of 112,077 km2 (43,273 sq mi) and 35,193,978 residents as per 2011 census. On 2 June 2014, the area was separated from the northwestern part of Andhra Pradesh as the newly formed state of Telangana, with Hyderabad as its capital. Its other major cities include Warangal, Nizamabad, Khammam, Karimnagar and Ramagundam. Telangana is bordered by the states of Maharashtra to the north, Chhattisgarh to the northeast, Karnataka to the west, and Andhra Pradesh to the east and south. The terrain of Telangana consists mostly of the Deccan Plateau with dense forests covering an area of 27,292 km2 (10,538 sq mi). As of 2019, the state of Telangana is divided into 33 districts.\n Question: What is the capital of Telangana?", "output": "Hyderabad"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sinigang is a Filipino soup or stew characterized by its sour and savory taste. It is most often associated with tamarind (Filipino: \"sampalok\"), although it can use other sour fruits and leaves as the souring agent\n Question: What is Sinigang?", "output": "Sinigang is a popular dish in the Philippines characterized by its sour, tangy, and savory taste. Tamarind is the most common souring agent used, but other sour fruits may be used as well. Various types of protein can be used in this soup dish, ranging from pork belly, shrimp, fish, and beef."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: D'Artagnan hires a servant named Planchet, finds lodgings and reports to Monsieur des Essart, whose company is a less prestigious regiment in which he will have to serve for two years before being considered for the musketeers. Shortly after, his landlord speaks to him about the kidnapping of his wife, Constance Bonacieux. When she is presently released, D'Artagnan falls in love at first sight with her. She works for Queen Anne of France, who is secretly having an affair with the English duke of Buckingham. The king, Louis XIII, gave the queen a gift of diamond studs, but she gives them to her lover as a keepsake.\n Question: What is the name of the woman D'Artagnan falls in love with ?", "output": "Constance Bonacieux"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In Badminton, each game is played to 21 points, with players scoring a point whenever they win a rally regardless of whether they served (this differs from the old system where players could only win a point on their serve and each game was played to 15 points). A match is the best of three games.\n\nIf the score ties at 20\u201320, then the game continues until one side gains a two-point lead (such as 24\u201322), except when there is a tie at 29\u201329, in which the game goes to a golden point of 30. Whoever scores this point wins the game.\n Question: What is the minimum amount of points a player needs to score to win a badminton match?", "output": "The minimum number of points needed to win a match of badminton is 42. In such a match only 2 games are played with the winning player scoring 21 points in each of them."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Trust is the willingness of one party (the trustor) to become vulnerable to another party (the trustee) on the presumption that the trustee will act in ways that benefit the trustor. In addition, the trustor does not have control over the actions of the trustee. Scholars distinguish between generalized trust (also known as social trust), which is the extension of trust to a relatively large circle of unfamiliar others, and particularized trust, which is contingent on a specific situation or a specific relationship.d\n Question: Describe the relationship between the Trustor and Trustee", "output": "Trust is the willingness of the trustor to become vulnerable to the trustee on the presumption that the trustee will act in ways that benefit the trustor"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Yandovy (Russian: \u042f\u043d\u0434\u043e\u0432\u044b) is a rural locality (a village) in Mstyora Urban Settlement, Vyaznikovsky District, Vladimir Oblast, Russia. The population was one as of 2010.\n\nGeography\nYandovy is located 16 km northwest of Vyazniki (the district's administrative centre) by road. Kostenevo is the nearest rural locality.\n Question: Have you heard of Yandovy or \u042f\u043d\u0434\u043e\u0432\u044b?", "output": "Yes, I have. Yandovy or \u042f\u043d\u0434\u043e\u0432\u044b is a rural locality (a village) in Mstyora Urban Settlement, Vyaznikovsky District, Vladimir Oblast, Russia. The population of this village was one as of 2010.\nIt is located 16 km northwest of Vyazniki (the district's administrative centre) by road. Kostenevo is the nearest rural locality."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Given the paragraph about battles between England and Scotland, which battles occurred between both countries\n Question: Battles between England and Scotland", "output": "The Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Scotland fought dozens of battles with each other. They fought typically over land, and the Anglo-Scottish border frequently changed as a result. Prior to the establishment of the two kingdoms, in the 10th and 9th centuries, their predecessors, the Northumbrians, Picts and Dal Riatans, also fought a number of battles. Major conflicts between the two parties include the Wars of Scottish Independence (1296\u20131357), and the Rough Wooing (1544\u20131551), as well as numerous smaller campaigns and individual confrontations. In 1603, England and Scotland were joined in a \"personal union\" when King James VI of Scotland succeeded to the throne of England as King James I. War between the two states largely ceased, although the Wars of the Three Kingdoms in the 17th century, and the Jacobite risings of the 18th century, are sometimes characterised as Anglo-Scottish conflicts."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Derby Museum and Art Gallery is a museum and art gallery in Derby, England. It was established in 1879, along with Derby Central Library, in a new building designed by Richard Knill Freeman and given to Derby by Michael Thomas Bass. The collection includes a gallery displaying many paintings by Joseph Wright of Derby; there is also a large display of Royal Crown Derby and other porcelain from Derby and the surrounding area. Further displays include archaeology, natural history, geology, military collections and world cultures. The Art Gallery was opened in 1882.\n Question: Given a reference text about Derby Museum and Art Gallery, tell me when the it was established and what the gallery contains.", "output": "The Derby Museum and Art Gallery was established in 1879 and includes a gallery with many paintings by Joseph Wright of Derby and other displays with archaeology, natural history, geology, military collections, and world cultures."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Touch typing (also called blind typing, or touch keyboarding) is a style of typing. Although the phrase refers to typing without using the sense of sight to find the keys\u2014specifically, a touch typist will know their location on the keyboard through muscle memory\u2014the term is often used to refer to a specific form of touch typing that involves placing the eight fingers in a horizontal row along the middle of the keyboard (the home row) and having them reach for specific other keys. (Under this usage, typists who do not look at the keyboard but do not use home row either are referred to as hybrid typists.) Both two-handed touch typing and one-handed touch typing are possible.\n Question: What does Touch Typing refer to?", "output": "Touch typing refers to typing without using the sense of sight to find the keys"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Larry Joe Bird (born December 7, 1956) is an American former professional basketball player, coach, and executive in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Nicknamed \"the Hick from French Lick\" and \"Larry Legend\", Bird is widely regarded as one of the greatest basketball players of all time. He is the only person in NBA history to be named Rookie of the Year, Most Valuable Player, Finals MVP, All-Star MVP, Coach of the Year, and Executive of the Year. Growing up in French Lick, Indiana, he was a local basketball star. Highly recruited, he initially signed to play college basketball for coach Bob Knight of the Indiana Hoosiers, but Bird dropped out after one month and returned to French Lick to attend a local community college. The next year he attended the smaller Indiana State University, ultimately playing three years for the Sycamores. Drafted by the Boston Celtics with the sixth overall pick in the 1978 NBA draft after his second year at Indiana State, Bird elected to stay in college and returned for the 1978\u20131979 season. He then led his team to an undefeated regular season. The season finished with a national championship game match-up of Indiana State against Michigan State and featured a highly anticipated match-up of Bird against Michigan State great Magic Johnson, thus beginning a career-long rivalry that the two shared for over a decade.\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Larry_Bird\n Question: Given the reference text below about Larry Bird, tell me where he was born, what he did for a living, and who his greatest professional rival was.", "output": "Larry Bird was born in French Lick. He played and coached basketball for a living, and his main rival was Magic Johnson."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Build Back Better Plan or Build Back Better agenda was a legislative framework proposed by U.S. president Joe Biden between 2020 and 2021. Generally viewed as ambitious in size and scope, it sought the largest nationwide public investment in social, infrastructural, and environmental programs since the 1930s Great Depression-era policies of the New Deal.\n\nThe Build Back Better plan was divided into three parts:\n\nAmerican Rescue Plan (ARP), a COVID-19 pandemic-relief bill;\nAmerican Jobs Plan (AJP), a proposal to address long-neglected infrastructure needs and reduce America's contributions to destructive effects of climate change; and\nAmerican Families Plan (AFP), a proposal to fund a variety of social policy initiatives, some of which (e.g., paid family leave) had never before been enacted nationally in the U.S.\nThe first part was passed as the $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, and was signed into law in March 2021. The other two parts were reworked into different bills over the course of extensive negotiations. Aspects of the AJP's infrastructure goals were diverted into the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, which was signed into law in November 2021. Other AJP priorities (e.g., climate change remediation, home health care reform, etc.) were then merged with the AFP to form the Build Back Better Act. The bill passed the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives but struggled to gain the support of Democrats Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona in the evenly divided Senate, with unified Republican opposition. Manchin and Sinema negotiated the reduction of Build Back Better Act's size, scope, and cost significantly with Biden and Democratic congressional leaders, but Manchin, widely viewed as the key swing vote needed to pass the bill in the Senate, ultimately rejected it over the procedural tactics used. Continued negotiations between Manchin and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer eventually resulted in the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which was signed into law in August 2022, and incorporated some of the Build Back Better Act's climate change, healthcare, and tax reform proposals while excluding its social safety net proposals.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Build Back Better Plan, what are the 3 parts that make up the plan?", "output": "The three components of the Build Back Better plan are:\n- American Rescue Plan\n- American Jobs Plan\n- American Families Plan"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Independence Day (colloquially the Fourth of July) is a federal holiday in the United States commemorating the Declaration of Independence, which was ratified by the Second Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, establishing the United States of America.\n\nThe Founding Father delegates of the Second Continental Congress declared that the Thirteen Colonies were no longer subject (and subordinate) to the monarch of Britain, King George III, and were now united, free, and independent states. The Congress voted to approve independence by passing the Lee Resolution on July 2 and adopted the Declaration of Independence two days later, on July 4.\n\nIndependence Day is commonly associated with fireworks, parades, barbecues, carnivals, fairs, picnics, concerts, baseball games, family reunions, political speeches, and ceremonies, in addition to various other public and private events celebrating the history, government, and traditions of the United States. Independence Day is the national day of the United States.\n Question: Given the paragraph about Independence Day, the Thirteen Colonies were not free from which Monarch?", "output": "The monarch of Britain, King George III"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Bloody Mary\" is a song by American singer Lady Gaga recorded for her second studio album Born This Way (2011). Gaga, Fernando Garibay, and Paul \"DJ White Shadow\" Blair wrote and produced it; Clinton Sparks also received producer credit. \"Bloody Mary\" is an electropop song with elements of synth-pop and trance, and features Gregorian chants. Although the song's title is an epithet mostly associated with the English queen Mary Tudor, Gaga assumes the role of biblical figure Mary Magdalene in its lyrics, whom she considered a \"feminine force\" she had worshiped since her childhood in a Catholic girls school. It is one of several tracks on the album with religious themes.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Lady Gaga, which album did \"Bloody Mary\" appear on?", "output": "Born this Way (2011)"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The size of the Sahara has historically been extremely variable, with its area rapidly fluctuating and at times disappearing depending on global climatic conditions. At the end of the Ice ages, estimated to have been around 10,500 BCE, the Sahara had again become a green fertile valley, and its African populations returned from the interior and coastal highlands in sub-Saharan Africa, with rock art paintings depicting a fertile Sahara and large populations discovered in Tassili n'Ajjer dating back perhaps 10 millennia. However, the warming and drying climate meant that by 5000 BCE, the Sahara region was becoming increasingly dry and hostile. Around 3500 BCE, due to a tilt in the earth's orbit, the Sahara experienced a period of rapid desertification. The population trekked out of the Sahara region towards the Nile Valley below the Second Cataract where they made permanent or semi-permanent settlements. A major climatic recession occurred, lessening the heavy and persistent rains in Central and Eastern Africa. Since this time, dry conditions have prevailed in Eastern Africa and, increasingly during the last 200 years, in Ethiopia.\n Question: Why did the Sahara experience a period of rapid desertification?", "output": "Sahara experienced a period of rapid desertification due to a tilt in the earth's orbit."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee declared January 26 as \"Original Joe's Day\".\n Question: When is Original Joe's Day in San Francisco?", "output": "January 26"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Magic realism or magical realism is a style of literary fiction and art. It paints a realistic view of the world while also adding magical elements, often blurring the lines between fantasy and reality. Magic realism often refers to literature in particular, with magical or supernatural phenomena presented in an otherwise real-world or mundane setting, commonly found in novels and dramatic performances.:\u200a1\u20135\u200a Despite including certain magic elements, it is generally considered to be a different genre from fantasy because magical realism uses a substantial amount of realistic detail and employs magical elements to make a point about reality, while fantasy stories are often separated from reality. Magical realism is often seen as an amalgamation of real and magical elements that produces a more inclusive writing form than either literary realism or fantasy.\n\nThe term magic realism is broadly descriptive rather than critically rigorous, and Matthew Strecher (1999) defines it as \"what happens when a highly detailed, realistic setting is invaded by something too strange to believe.\" The term and its wide definition can often become confused, as many writers are categorized as magical realists. The term was influenced by a German and Italian painting style of the 1920s which were given the same name. In The Art of Fiction, British novelist and critic David Lodge defines magic realism: \"when marvellous and impossible events occur in what otherwise purports to be a realistic narrative - is an effect especially associated with contemporary Latin-American fiction (for example the work of the Colombian novelist, Gabriel Garc\u00eda Marquez) but it is also encountered in novels from other continents, such as those of G\u00fcnter Grass, Salman Rushdie and Milan Kundera. All these writers have lived through great historical convulsions and wrenching personal upheavals, which they feel they cannot be adequately represented in a discourse of undisturbed realism\", citing Kundera's The Book of Laughter and Forgetting as an exemplar. \" Michiko Kakutani writes that \"The transactions between the extraordinary and the mundane that occur in so much Latin American fiction are not merely a literary technique, but also a mirror of a reality in which the fantastic is frequently part of everyday life.\" Magical realism often mixes history and fantasy, as in Salman Rushdie's Midnight's Children, in which the children born at midnight on August 15, 1947, the moment of India's independence, are telepathically linked.\n\nIrene Guenther (1995) tackles the German roots of the term, and how an earlier magic realist art is related to a later magic realist literature; meanwhile, magical realism is often associated with Latin-American literature, including founders of the genre, particularly the authors Gabriel Garc\u00eda M\u00e1rquez, Isabel Allende, Jorge Luis Borges, Juan Rulfo, Miguel \u00c1ngel Asturias, Elena Garro, Mireya Robles, R\u00f3mulo Gallegos and Arturo Uslar Pietri. In English literature, its chief exponents include Neil Gaiman, Salman Rushdie, Alice Hoffman, Nick Joaquin, and Nicola Barker. In Bengali literature, prominent writers of magic realism include Nabarun Bhattacharya, Akhteruzzaman Elias, Shahidul Zahir, Jibanananda Das and Syed Waliullah. In Japanese literature, one of the most important authors of this genre is Haruki Murakami. In Kannada literature, the writers Shivaram Karanth and Devanur Mahadeva have infused magical realism in their most prominent works. In Polish literature, magic realism is represented by Olga Tokarczuk, the 2018 Nobel Prize laureate in Literature.\n Question: Based on the paragraph below, name some authors outside of Latin America who employ magical realism in their work.", "output": "While Latin American authors are most closely associated with magical realism, there are many others who adopt this style. Notable ones include Salman Rushdie, Neil Gaiman, Haruki Murakami and Olga Tokarczuk."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The black swan theory or theory of black swan events is a metaphor that describes an event that comes as a surprise, has a major effect, and is often inappropriately rationalized after the fact with the benefit of hindsight. The term is based on an ancient saying that presumed black swans did not exist \u2013 a saying that became reinterpreted to teach a different lesson after they were discovered in Australia.\n\nThe theory was developed by Nassim Nicholas Taleb, starting in 2001, to explain:\n\n1. The disproportionate role of high-profile, hard-to-predict, and rare events that are beyond the realm of normal expectations in history, science, finance, and technology.\n2. The non-computability of the probability of consequential rare events using scientific methods (owing to the very nature of small probabilities).\n3. The psychological biases that blind people, both individually and collectively, to uncertainty and the substantial role of rare events in historical affairs.\n\nTaleb's \"black swan theory\" refers only to unexpected events of large magnitude and consequence and their dominant role in history. Such events, considered extreme outliers, collectively play vastly larger roles than regular occurrences.\u200a More technically, in the scientific monograph \"Silent Risk\", Taleb mathematically defines the black swan problem as \"stemming from the use of degenerate metaprobability\".\n Question: Who developed the Black Swan theory?", "output": "The black Swan Theory was developed by Nassim Nicholas Taleb in 2001."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Battle of Thermopylae (/\u03b8\u0259r\u02c8m\u0252p\u026ali\u02d0/ th\u0259r-MOP-i-lee; Greek: \u039c\u03ac\u03c7\u03b7 \u03c4\u1ff6\u03bd \u0398\u03b5\u03c1\u03bc\u03bf\u03c0\u03c5\u03bb\u1ff6\u03bd, M\u00e1ch\u0113 t\u014dn Thermopyl\u014dn) was fought in 480 BC between the Achaemenid Persian Empire under Xerxes I and an alliance of Greek city-states led by Sparta under Leonidas I. Lasting over the course of three days, it was one of the most prominent battles of both the second Persian invasion of Greece and the wider Greco-Persian Wars.\n\nThe engagement at Thermopylae occurred simultaneously with the Battle of Artemisium: between July and September 480 BC. The second Persian invasion under Xerxes I was a delayed response to the failure of the first Persian invasion, which had been initiated by Darius I and ended in 490 BC by an Athenian-led Greek victory at the Battle of Marathon. By 480 BC, a decade after the Persian defeat at Marathon, Xerxes had amassed a massive land and naval force, and subsequently set out to conquer all of Greece. In response, the Athenian politician and general Themistocles proposed that the allied Greeks block the advance of the Persian army at the pass of Thermopylae while simultaneously blocking the Persian navy at the Straits of Artemisium.\n\nAround the start of the invasion, a Greek force of approximately 7,000 men led by Leonidas marched north to block the pass of Thermopylae. Ancient authors vastly inflated the size of the Persian army, with estimates in the millions, but modern scholars estimate it at between 120,000 and 300,000 soldiers. They arrived at Thermopylae by late August or early September; the outnumbered Greeks held them off for seven days (including three of direct battle) before their rear-guard was annihilated in one of history's most famous last stands. During two full days of battle, the Greeks blocked the only road by which the massive Persian army could traverse the narrow pass. After the second day, a local resident named Ephialtes revealed to the Persians the existence of a path leading behind the Greek lines. Subsequently, Leonidas, aware that his force was being outflanked by the Persians, dismissed the bulk of the Greek army and remained to guard their retreat along with 300 Spartans and 700 Thespians. It has been reported that others also remained, including up to 900 helots and 400 Thebans. With the exception of the Thebans, most of whom reportedly surrendered, the Greeks fought the Persians to the death.\n\nThemistocles was in command of the Greek naval force at Artemisium when he received news that the Persians had taken the pass at Thermopylae. Since the Greek defensive strategy had required both Thermopylae and Artemisium to be held, the decision was made to withdraw to the island of Salamis. The Persians overran Boeotia and then captured the evacuated city of Athens. The Greek fleet\u2014seeking a decisive victory over the Persian armada\u2014attacked and defeated the invading force at the Battle of Salamis in late 480 BC. Wary of being trapped in Europe, Xerxes withdrew with much of his army to Asia, reportedly losing many of his troops to starvation and disease while also leaving behind the Persian military commander Mardonius to continue the Achaemenid Empire's Greek campaign. However, the following year saw a Greek army decisively defeat Mardonius and his troops at the Battle of Plataea, ending the second Persian invasion.\n\nBoth ancient and modern writers have used the Battle of Thermopylae as a flagship example of the power of an army defending its native soil. The performance of the Greek defenders is also used as an example of the advantages of training, equipment, and use of terrain as force multipliers.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Battle of Thermopylae, tell me when the battle was fought, who the battle was between, how many Greek and Persian forces there were, how the Persian army was able to flank the Greek forces and who won the battle?", "output": "The Battle of Thermopylae was fought in 480 BC. The battle was fought between the Persian Empire, led by Xerxes I, and a combination of allied Greek city-states led by Leonidas I of Sparta. There were approximately 7,000 Greek men led by Leonidas I and an estimated 120,000 - 300,000 Persian soldiers led by Xerxes I. The Persian army was able to outflank the Greek army because a local person named Ephialtes informed the Persians that there was an unguarded path that lead behind the Greek lines. The Greek army made one final stand but ultimately were unsuccessful and were over taken by the Persian army."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Stingrays are a group of sea rays, which are cartilaginous fish related to sharks. They are classified in the suborder Myliobatoidei of the order Myliobatiformes and consist of eight families: Hexatrygonidae (sixgill stingray), Plesiobatidae (deepwater stingray), Urolophidae (stingarees), Urotrygonidae (round rays), Dasyatidae (whiptail stingrays), Potamotrygonidae (river stingrays), Gymnuridae (butterfly rays) and Myliobatidae (eagle rays). There are about 220 known stingray species organized into 29 genera.\n Question: How many species of Stingrays are there?", "output": "There are about 220 known stingray species organized into 29 genera."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Formal discussions on inference date back to Arab mathematicians and cryptographers, during the Islamic Golden Age between the 8th and 13th centuries. Al-Khalil (717\u2013786) wrote the Book of Cryptographic Messages, which contains one of the first uses of permutations and combinations, to list all possible Arabic words with and without vowels. Al-Kindi's Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages gave a detailed description of how to use frequency analysis to decipher encrypted messages, providing an early example of statistical inference for decoding. Ibn Adlan (1187\u20131268) later made an important contribution on the use of sample size in frequency analysis.\n\nThe earliest writing containing statistics in Europe dates back to 1663, with the publication of Natural and Political Observations upon the Bills of Mortality by John Graunt. Early applications of statistical thinking revolved around the needs of states to base policy on demographic and economic data, hence its stat- etymology. The scope of the discipline of statistics broadened in the early 19th century to include the collection and analysis of data in general. Today, statistics is widely employed in government, business, and natural and social sciences.\n Question: Given this reference text about the history of statistics, what was the earliest publican of writing on statistics?", "output": "The earliest publication containing statistics is Natural and Political Observations upon the Bills or Mortality by John Graunt."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In Saint Johnstown, the road becomes a divided highway and DE 36 splits from DE 16 by heading to the northeast on Shawnee Road. DE 16 soon becomes undivided again and continues east through agricultural areas and woods with some residences, crossing Toms Dam Branch and running through the community of Owens. Farther east, the road passes through the community of Oakley and crosses West Branch Gum Branch and then Gum Branch. The route comes to an intersection with US 113 near a few businesses, where it is briefly a divided highway. Past this intersection, the name changes to Milton Ellendale Highway and the two-lane undivided road enters the town of Ellendale, where it becomes Main Street. In Ellendale, DE 16 runs past several homes, crossing the Delmarva Central Railroad's Indian River Subdivision line at-grade. The road leaves the town and becomes Milton Ellendale Highway again, turning southeast. The route heads through woodland and farms, running immediately to the north of the Delmarva Central Railroad's Milton Industrial Track line. DE 16 turns east away from the railroad tracks and comes to an intersection with DE 30. At this point, DE 5 Alternate (DE 5 Alt.), which runs south along DE 30, heads east along with DE 16. The road reaches the town of Milton, where it passes homes and businesses. DE 16 comes to an intersection with DE 5, where DE 5 Alt. ends and the road name changes to Broadkill Road. The route leaves Milton and continues into farmland with a few residences, turning to the northeast. The road intersects DE 1 and passes north of a golf course before it runs through a mix of farms and woods with some homes. DE 16 turns east and northeast through marshland within the Prime Hook National Wildlife Refuge before crossing Broadkill Sound and reaching the community of Broadkill Beach. Here, the route intersects Bay Shore Drive before ending at a dead end on the Delaware Bay.\n Question: per this reference text about Delaware Route 16, how many times does the road change between being a divided highway and undivided?", "output": "DE Route 16 changes 3 times between divided and undivided highways per the information provided."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Captain Ginyu (\u30ae\u30cb\u30e5\u30fc\u968a\u9577, Giny\u016b-Taich\u014d) is a horned purple-skinned humanoid who is the leader of the Ginyu Force. He is shown to be the most tactically skilled, as he deduced that Goku was masking his true power level by simply watching him fight. After seeing Goku's increased power level when using the Kaio-ken, Ginyu inflicts a near-fatal injury on himself,[ch. 285, 286] before using his technique that allows him to switch bodies with anyone, leaving Goku with Ginyu's nearly dead body.[ch. 286, 287] As Goku, Ginyu momentarily deceives Krillin but has trouble fighting Krillin and Gohan when he realizes that he can not fully control Goku's power.[ch. 288, 289] Ginyu then tries to switch into Vegeta's body, but Goku intervenes getting his body back, and when Ginyu tries again, he switches bodies with a Namekian frog Goku throws in the way.[ch. 290] In Dragon Ball Super, Ginyu is revealed to have survived Namek's destruction and escaped to Earth, though he is still trapped in the frog's body. He takes the opportunity to swap bodies with one of Frieza's soldiers named Tagoma, but is killed by Vegeta shortly afterward. Ginyu is voiced by Hideyuki Hori in the original series and Katsuyuki Konishi in Kai. In English, he is voiced by Richard Newman in the Ocean dub, Dale Kelly in Funimation's original dub, Brice Armstrong in their redub, and by Robert Bruce Elliott in Kai.\n Question: From this summary of Captain Ginyu's role in the series Dragon Ball, how many times did Captain Ginyu switch bodies?", "output": "Captain Ginyu switches bodies 4 times in the Dragon Ball series. Captain Ginyu first switched bodies with Goku and back. Then Captain Ginyu switched bodies a Namekian frog, then in Dragon Ball Super, he switched bodies with one of Frieza's soldiers named Tagoma, and is promptly killed by Vegeta."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The University of Edinburgh (Scots: University o Edinburgh, Scottish Gaelic: Oilthigh Dh\u00f9n \u00c8ideann; abbreviated as Edin. in post-nominals) is a public research university based in Edinburgh, Scotland. Founded by the town council under the authority of a royal charter of King James VI in 1582 and officially opened in 1583, it is one of Scotland's four ancient universities and the sixth-oldest university in continuous operation in the English-speaking world. The university played an important role in Edinburgh becoming a chief intellectual centre during the Scottish Enlightenment and contributed to the city being nicknamed the \"Athens of the North.\" Edinburgh is ranked among the top universities in the United Kingdom and the world.\n\nEdinburgh is a member of several associations of research-intensive universities, including the Coimbra Group, League of European Research Universities, Russell Group, Una Europa, and Universitas 21. In the fiscal year ending 31 July 2022, it had a total income of \u00a31.262 billion, of which \u00a3331.6 million was from research grants and contracts. It has the third-largest endowment in the UK, behind only Cambridge and Oxford. The university has five main campuses in the city of Edinburgh, which include many buildings of historical and architectural significance such as those in the Old Town.\n\nEdinburgh is the seventh-largest university in the UK by enrolment and receives over 75,000 undergraduate applications per year, making it the second-most popular university in the UK by volume of applications. Edinburgh had the eighth-highest average UCAS points amongst British universities for new entrants in 2020. The university continues to have links to the royal family, having had Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh as its chancellor from 1953 to 2010 and Anne, Princess Royal since March 2011.\n\nThe alumni of the university includes some of the major figures of modern history. Inventor Alexander Graham Bell, naturalist Charles Darwin, philosopher David Hume, and physicist James Clerk Maxwell studied at Edinburgh, as did writers such as Sir J. M. Barrie, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, J. K. Rowling, Sir Walter Scott, and Robert Louis Stevenson. The university counts several heads of state and government amongst its graduates, including three British Prime Ministers. Three Supreme Court Justices of the UK were educated at Edinburgh. As of January 2023, 19 Nobel Prize laureates, four Pulitzer Prize winners, three Turing Award winners, and an Abel Prize laureate and Fields Medalist have been affiliated with Edinburgh as alumni or academic staff. Edinburgh alumni have won a total of ten Olympic gold medals.\n Question: Given these paragraphs about a well-known Scottish University of some import, tell me specific details about when and where it was founded, what it's most well known for, and who are some of its most famous alumni.", "output": "The University of Edinburgh is based out of Edinburgh, Scotland founded by the royal charter of King James the 6th in 1582, officially opening for students in 1583. The University of Edinburgh is famous for being the sixth oldest University in the English-speaking world and the seventh largest by enrollment in the United Kingdom where Scotland resides today. A top public research university often nicknamed the \"Athens of the North\" whose famous alumni were pivotal in contributing to the Scottish Enlightenment, the University of Edinburgh is known as one of the top-ranked universities in the United Kingdom. With such esteemed alumni as Alexander Graham Bell, Charles Darwin, and David Hume not to mention famous authors such as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and J.K. Rowling, and even several heads of state in three British Prime Ministers."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ross was born in Nairn, in Middlesex County, Ontario, the son of Donald Ross and Margaret Halbert. His grandfather was part of Duke Wellington's body guard at Waterloo, and was an escort to Napoleon Bonaparte on his exile to St. Helena. Ross was educated at Nairn Public School, and moved to Manitoba in 1874, where he worked on the first telegraph line. In 1877, he established a real estate business. Ross served on the Winnipeg City Council for eight years, the Winnipeg School Board for twenty-three years, and the Winnipeg Public Parks Board for eleven years. In 1880, he married Margaret McIvor.\n Question: Who did Donald's grandfather body guard for?", "output": "Donald's grandfather was a body guard for Duke Wellington."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 35th Filipino Academy of Movie Arts and Sciences Awards Night was held on May 6, 1988 at the Manila Hotel Fiesta Pavilion in the Philippines, honoring the best films of 1987.\n\nSaan Nagtatago ang Pag-ibig won the most awards with four wins including the most coveted FAMAS Award for Best Picture Three people were elevated to the \"Hall Of Fame\" status after winning their respective categories five times. They were Fernando Poe Jr. for best actor, Augusto Salvador for editing and George Canseco for musical score. This is the second time for Canseco who was earlier inducted to the Hall of Fame for winning five time in the Theme Song Category.\n Question: Given a reference text about the 35th Filipino Academy of Movie Arts and Sciences Awards Night, tell me who won the best actor award.", "output": "Fernando Poe Jr. won the best actor award at the 35th Filipino Academy of Movie Arts and Sciences Awards Night."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Clapton has been referred to as one of the most important and influential guitarists of all time. Clapton is the only three-time inductee to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame: once as a solo artist, and separately as a member of the Yardbirds and Cream. He ranked second in Rolling Stone magazine's list of the \"100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time\" and fourth in Gibson's Top 50 Guitarists of All Time.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Eric Clapton, what solo accomplishments help rank him as one of the most influential guitarists of all time?", "output": "Inductee as a solo artist into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame; \nRanking 2nd in Rolling Stone Magazine's  list of the \"100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time;\" Ranking 4th in Gibson's Top 50 Guitarists of All Time"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: On 17 March 1773, Auguste\u2019s spouse succeeded as the 4th Prince of Thurn and Taxis. The marriage was at that point severely deteriorated. Auguste left Karl Anselm and settled in Paris. Rumours claimed that she lived with a lover. However, she was tormented by economical problems, ran out of funds and was hounded by creditors.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Duchess Auguste of W\u00fcrttemberg, what happened to personal life?", "output": "Auguste\u2019s marriage was severely deteriorated and she had debt problems."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Woodstock Music and Art Fair, commonly referred to as Woodstock, was a music festival held during August 15\u201318, 1969, on Max Yasgur's dairy farm in Bethel, New York, United States, 40 miles (65 km) southwest of the town of Woodstock. Billed as \"an Aquarian Exposition: 3 Days of Peace & Music\" and alternatively referred to as the Woodstock Rock Festival, it attracted an audience of more than 400,000 attendees. Thirty-two acts performed outdoors despite sporadic rain. It was one of the largest music festivals held in history.\n Question: Did the Grateful Dead play at the original Woodstock concert?", "output": "Yes, the Grateful Dead played a 1 hour and 35 minute set on Saturday, August 16 1969, that ended after a fifty-minute version of \"Turn On Your Love Light\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Multiple myeloma (MM), also known as plasma cell myeloma and simply myeloma, is a cancer of plasma cells, a type of white blood cell that normally produces antibodies. Often, no symptoms are noticed initially. As it progresses, bone pain, anemia, kidney dysfunction, and infections may occur. Complications may include amyloidosis.\n\nThe cause of multiple myeloma is unknown. Risk factors include obesity, radiation exposure, family history, and certain chemicals. There is an increased risk of multiple myeloma in certain occupations. This is due to the occupational exposure to aromatic hydrocarbon solvents having a role in causation of multiple myeloma. Multiple myeloma may develop from monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance that progresses to smoldering myeloma. The abnormal plasma cells produce abnormal antibodies, which can cause kidney problems and overly thick blood. The plasma cells can also form a mass in the bone marrow or soft tissue. When one tumor is present, it is called a plasmacytoma; more than one is called multiple myeloma. Multiple myeloma is diagnosed based on blood or urine tests finding abnormal antibodies, bone marrow biopsy finding cancerous plasma cells, and medical imaging finding bone lesions. Another common finding is high blood calcium levels.\n Question: Given a reference text about multiple myeloma, tell me the risk factors and the cause of the disease.", "output": "Although the cause of multiple myeloma is not known, risk factors for developing the disease are obesity, radiation exposure, family history, and exposure to certain chemicals."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Fabio Garriba (13 November 1944 \u2013 9 August 2016) was an Italian stage, film and television actor.\n\nLife and career\nBorn in Soave, Garriba started his career on stage, and in 1969 he made his film debut in Dziga Vertov Group's Wind from the East. He later worked with prominent directors such as Roberto Rossellini, Bernardo Bertolucci, Ettore Scola, Marco Bellocchio and Luigi Magni. He also had leading roles in films directed by his twin brother Mario, notably the Golden Leopard winner On the Point of Death.\n\nGarriba also worked as assistant director for Bernardo Bertolucci, Pier Paolo Pasolini, Marco Ferreri and Carmelo Bene. His only work as director, the short film I parenti tutti, was screened at the 68th Venice International Film Festival alongside his brother's works in the retrospective \"Orizzonti 1960-1978\". Garriba also published several collections of poetries.\n Question: Who was On the Point of Death directed by, given the following information?", "output": "Mario Garriba directed On the Point of Death which stars his brother Fabio in a leading role."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The boat measures 99 feet (30 m) long overall, with a hull length of 80 feet (24 m), and an 18-foot (5.5 m) beam. She draws 32 inches (0.8 m). She is powered by a 160-horsepower (120 kW) 1940 Fairbanks-Morse 35E10 direct reversing diesel engine. She measures 51 gross registry tons and displaces approximately 108 long tons (110 t). She is fashioned out of steel plates riveted to a steel frame. She has a scow-form bow fitted with special \"knees\" used in pushing barges, and a flat bottom with no keel\n Question: Given the reference text about a towboat, how does the boat work?", "output": "The boat is powered by a 160-horsepower 1940 Fairbanks-Morse 35E10 direct reversing diesel engine."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 2010 Tennessee Titans season was the team's 41st season in the National Football League, their 51st overall and their 14th season in Tennessee. The Titans hoped to improve on their 8\u20138 record from the 2009 season, but they failed to do so and ended up finishing 6-10. They started the season 5-2, but lost the next 8 of 9. This was the Titans\u2019 final season under head coach Jeff Fisher, who resigned on January 27, 2011 after 17 seasons with the team.\n\nOffseason\nPersonnel changes\nOn January 25, Kennedy Pola, who previously served as the Jacksonville Jaguars' running backs coach for the past five seasons, was hired to the same position with the Titans, replacing Earnest Byner, who was fired the same day. (Ironically, Byner was later named the new Jaguars' running backs coach ten days later.) On May 14, Ruston Webster, who served as the Seattle Seahawks' vice president of player personnel for the past four seasons, was hired to the same position with the Titans.\n\nOn July 27, Kennedy Pola left the Titans and accepted the offensive coordinator position at USC. On July 28, the following changes were made to the Titans' coaching staff: Craig Johnson was moved from quarterbacks coach to the running backs coach vacated by Kennedy Pola, and will also serve as assistant head coach. Dowell Loggains, who previously served as quality control of offense, was named the new quarterbacks coach, while offensive assistant Richie Hessman will serve as quality control of offense.\n Question: How many seasons was Jeff Fisher the head coach of the Titans while they were not in Tennessee?", "output": "3 seasons"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Throughout his career, Mercury performed an estimated 700 concerts in countries around the world with Queen. A notable aspect of Queen concerts was the large scale involved. He once explained, \"We're the Cecil B. DeMille of rock and roll, always wanting to do things bigger and better.\" The band was the first ever to play in South American stadiums, breaking worldwide records for concert attendance in the Morumbi Stadium in S\u00e3o Paulo in 1981. In 1986, Queen also played behind the Iron Curtain when they performed to a crowd of 80,000 in Budapest, in what was one of the biggest rock concerts ever held in Eastern Europe. Mercury's final live performance with Queen took place on 9 August 1986 at Knebworth Park in England and drew an attendance estimated as high as 200,000. A week prior to Knebworth, May recalled Mercury saying \"I'm not going to be doing this forever. This is probably the last time.\" With the British national anthem \"God Save the Queen\" playing at the end of the concert, Mercury's final act on stage saw him draped in a robe, holding a golden crown aloft, bidding farewell to the crowd.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Freddie Mercury, where was his last performance with Queen.", "output": "Knebworth Park"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Killing Jar (Chatto and Windus) is the debut novel of Nicola Monaghan, published in March 2006. It tells the story of Kerrie Ann Hill, a young girl growing up on a drug-ridden housing estate in Nottingham. Kerrie Ann meets an elderly neighbour when she's young, Mrs Ivanovich, an entomologist who teaches Kerrie about life, death, the Amazon rainforest and the miniature, alien world of insects. \"Kez\" struggles to look after her brother Jon, and hold things together as she's brought up by her junkie mum, Sue, and later, living with her boyfriend Mark as he becomes more and more involved with heroin and crack cocaine.\n\nThe book explores themes of metamorphosis, the highs and lows of drugs, and how people become trapped by poisoned environments, and what it takes to escape them.\n\nMonaghan was included in The Independent's New Year list of \"Rising Talent of 2006\" and The Killing Jar made their 50 Hot Books for summer and Books of Year features. It went on to win a Betty Trask Award, The Authors' Club Best First Novel Award, and the Waverton Good Read Award.\n Question: Based on the provided text, how many awards did the book \"The Killing Jar\" win and what year were they awarded?", "output": "The Killing Jar won 3 awards and they were awarded in 2006"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sourcefire, Inc was a technology company that developed network security hardware and software. The company's Firepower network security appliances were based on Snort, an open-source intrusion detection system (IDS). Sourcefire was acquired by Cisco for $2.7 billion in July 2013.\n\nBackground\nSourcefire was founded in 2001 by Martin Roesch, the creator of Snort. The company created a commercial version of the Snort software, the Sourcefire 3D System, which evolved into the company's Firepower line of network security products. The company's headquarters was in Columbia, Maryland in the United States, with offices abroad.\n Question: Given a reference text about Sourcefire, what company acquired it and how much was it acquired for?", "output": "Cisco acquired Sourcefire for $2.7B."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The New Deal was a series of programs, public work projects, financial reforms, and regulations enacted by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the United States between 1933 and 1939. Major federal programs and agencies included the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC), the Works Progress Administration (WPA), the Civil Works Administration (CWA), the Farm Security Administration (FSA), the National Industrial Recovery Act of 1933 (NIRA) and the Social Security Administration (SSA). They provided support for farmers, the unemployed, youth, and the elderly. The New Deal included new constraints and safeguards on the banking industry and efforts to re-inflate the economy after prices had fallen sharply. New Deal programs included both laws passed by Congress as well as presidential executive orders during the first term of the presidency of Franklin D. Roosevelt.\n\nThe programs focused on what historians refer to as the \"3 R's\": relief for the unemployed and for the poor, recovery of the economy back to normal levels, and reform of the financial system to prevent a repeat depression. The New Deal produced a political realignment, making the Democratic Party the majority (as well as the party that held the White House for seven out of the nine presidential terms from 1933 to 1969) with its base in progressive ideas, the South, big city machines and the newly empowered labor unions, and various ethnic groups. The Republicans were split, with progressive Republicans in support but conservatives opposing the entire New Deal as hostile to business and economic growth. The realignment crystallized into the New Deal coalition that dominated presidential elections into the 1960s while the opposing conservative coalition largely controlled Congress in domestic affairs from 1937 to 1964.\n Question: Given the reference text about \"The New Deal\", what are the \"3 R's\" historians refer to about the program.", "output": "The \"3 R's\" historians refer to are the following:\n- Relief for the unemployed and for the poor\n- Recovery of the economy back to normal levels\n- Reform of the financial system to prevent a repeat depression"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pasteur married Marie Pasteur (n\u00e9e Laurent) in 1849. She was the daughter of the rector of the University of Strasbourg, and was Pasteur's scientific assistant. They had five children together, three of whom died as children. Their eldest daughter, Jeanne, was born in 1850. She died from typhoid fever, aged 9, whilst at the boarding school Arbois in 1859. In 1865, 2-year-old Camille died of a liver tumour. Shortly after they decided to bring C\u00e9cile home from boarding school, but she too died of typhoid fever on 23 May 1866 at the age of 12. Only Jean Baptiste (b. 1851) and Marie Louise (b. 1858) survived to adulthood. Jean Baptiste would be a soldier in the Franco-Prussian War between France and Prussia.\n Question: How many children did Louis Pasteur have, and how many died of typhoid fever?", "output": "Louis Pasteur had 5 children, 2 of which died from Typhoid fever"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Outcault painted electric light displays for Edison Laboratories for the 1888 Centennial Exposition of the Ohio Valley and Middle Atlantic States in Cincinnati. This led to full-time work with Edison in West Orange, New Jersey, doing mechanical drawings and illustrations. Edison appointed him official artist for the company's traveling exhibition in 1889\u201390, which included supervising the installation of Edison exhibits at the Exposition Universelle in Paris. While there, he studied art in the Latin Quarter and added the u to his surname.\n Question: Who did Outcault paint electric light displays for?", "output": "Outclaut painted electric light displays for Edison Laboratories for the 1888 Centennial Exposition of the Ohio Valley and Middle Atlantic States in Cincinnati."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: James Frederick Moriarty (May 8, 1896 \u2013 January 30, 1981) was a highly decorated officer in the United States Marine Corps with the rank of brigadier general. A veteran of World War I, he distinguished himself several times as a company officer with the 6th Machine Gun Battalion and received four awards of the Silver Star.\n Question: How many Silver Star awards did James Frederick Moriarty receive?", "output": "James Frederick Moriarty received four awards of the Silver Star"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cunningham was drafted with the first overall pick of the 2021 NBA draft by the Detroit Pistons. On August 8, 2021, he made his debut in the 2021 NBA Summer League in a 76\u201372 win against the Oklahoma City Thunder in which he posted 12 points, six rebounds, and two assists in 26 minutes. Cunningham lost part of the training camp, all of the preseason, and five of Detroit's first six games due to an ankle injury. On October 30, he made his NBA debut, putting up two points, two assists, and seven rebounds in a 110\u2013103 win over the Orlando Magic. After five games, Cunningham posted his first 40-plus field-goal percentage, and he had an 18-point, 10-rebound double-double in his third NBA game. On November 15, Cunningham became the youngest player in NBA history to tally at least 25 points, eight rebounds, and eight assists with five three-pointers in a game at 20 years, 51 days. He topped LeBron James (20 years, 100 days) and Trae Young (20 years, 163 days). On November 21, he notched a triple-double with 13 points, 12 rebounds, and 10 assists in a 121\u2014116 loss to the Los Angeles Lakers to become the eighth-youngest player in NBA history to record a triple-double and the youngest in Pistons history.\n Question: What achievements did Cade Cunningham receive during his first year in the NBA based on the provided paragraph?", "output": "On November 15, 2021, Cade Cunningham became the youngest player in NBA history to tally at least 25 points, eight rebounds, and eight assists with five three-pointers in a game at 20 years, 51 days. He topped LeBron James (20 years, 100 days) and Trae Young (20 years, 163 days). On November 21, 2021, he notched a triple-double with 13 points, 12 rebounds, and 10 assists in a 121\u2014116 loss to the Los Angeles Lakers to become the eighth-youngest player in NBA history to record a triple-double and the youngest in Pistons history."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Baseball is a bat-and-ball sport played between two teams of nine players each, taking turns batting and fielding. The game occurs over the course of several plays, with each play generally beginning when a player on the fielding team, called the pitcher, throws a ball that a player on the batting team, called the batter, tries to hit with a bat. The objective of the offensive team (batting team) is to hit the ball into the field of play, away from the other team's players, allowing its players to run the bases, having them advance counter-clockwise around four bases to score what are called \"runs\". The objective of the defensive team (referred to as the fielding team) is to prevent batters from becoming runners, and to prevent runners' advance around the bases. A run is scored when a runner legally advances around the bases in order and touches home plate (the place where the player started as a batter).\n\nThe principal objective of the batting team is to have a player reach first base safely; this generally occurs either when the batter hits the ball and reaches first base before an opponent retrieves the ball and touches the base, or when the pitcher persists in throwing the ball out of the batter's reach. Players on the batting team who reach first base without being called \"out\" can attempt to advance to subsequent bases as a runner, either immediately or during teammates' turns batting. The fielding team tries to prevent runs by getting batters or runners \"out\", which forces them out of the field of play. The pitcher can get the batter out by throwing three pitches which result in strikes, while fielders can get the batter out by catching a batted ball before it touches the ground, and can get a runner out by tagging them with the ball while the runner is not touching a base.\n\nThe opposing teams switch back and forth between batting and fielding; the batting team's turn to bat is over once the fielding team records three outs. One turn batting for each team constitutes an inning. A game is usually composed of nine innings, and the team with the greater number of runs at the end of the game wins. Most games end after the ninth inning, but if scores are tied at that point, extra innings are usually played. Baseball has no game clock, though some competitions feature pace-of-play regulations such as the pitch clock to shorten game time.\n\nBaseball evolved from older bat-and-ball games already being played in England by the mid-18th century. This game was brought by immigrants to North America, where the modern version developed. Baseball's American origins, as well as its reputation as a source of escapism during troubled points in American history such as the American Civil War and the Great Depression, have led the sport to receive the moniker of \"America's Pastime\"; since the late 19th century, it has been unofficially recognized as the national sport of the United States, though in modern times is considered less popular than other sports, such as American football. In addition to North America, baseball is considered the most popular sport in parts of Central and South America, the Caribbean, and East Asia, particularly in Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan.\n Question: What is the objective of a batter in the sport of baseball?", "output": "The principal objective of the batting team in the sport of baseball is to have a player reach first base safely; this generally occurs either when the batter hits the ball and reaches first base before an opponent retrieves the ball and touches the base, or when the pitcher persists in throwing the ball out of the batter's reach. Players on the batting team who reach first base without being called \"out\" can attempt to advance to subsequent bases as a runner, either immediately or during teammates' turns batting. The fielding team tries to prevent runs by getting batters or runners \"out\", which forces them out of the field of play. The pitcher can get the batter out by throwing three pitches which result in strikes, while fielders can get the batter out by catching a batted ball before it touches the ground, and can get a runner out by tagging them with the ball while the runner is not touching a base."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pinot noir (French: [pino nwa\u0281]) is a red-wine grape variety of the species Vitis vinifera. The name may also refer to wines created predominantly from pinot noir grapes. The name is derived from the French words for pine and black. The word pine alludes to the grape variety having tightly clustered, pinecone\u2013shaped bunches of fruit.\n Question: What does Pinot Noir mean?", "output": "The name Pinot Noir is derived from the French words for pine and black."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: It is likely that the area around Sigiriya may have been inhabited since prehistoric times. There is clear evidence that the many rock shelters and caves in the vicinity were occupied by Buddhist monks and ascetics from as early as the 3rd century BC. The earliest evidence of human habitation at Sigiriya is the Aligala rock shelter to the east of Sigiriya rock, indicating that the area was occupied nearly five thousand years ago during the Mesolithic Period.\n\nBuddhist monastic settlements were established during the 3rd century BC in the western and northern slopes of the boulder-strewn hills surrounding the Sigiriya rock. Several rock shelters or caves were created during this period. These shelters were made under large boulders, with carved drip ledges around the cave mouths. Rock inscriptions are carved near the drip ledges on many of the shelters, recording the donation of the shelters to the Buddhist monastic order as residences. These were made in the period between the 3rd century BCE and the 1st century AD.\n\nIn 477 AD, Kashyapa I, the king\u2019s son by a non-royal consort, seized the throne from King Dhatusena, following a coup assisted by Migara, the King\u2019s nephew and army commander. The rightful heir, Moggallana, fearing for his life, fled to South India. Afraid of an attack by Moggallana, Kashyapa moved the capital and his residence from the traditional capital of Anuradhapura to the more secure Sigiriya. During King Kashyapa\u2019s reign (477 to 495 AD), Sigiriya was developed into a complex city and fortress. Most of the elaborate constructions on the rock summit and around it, including defensive structures, palaces, and gardens, date from this period.\n Question: Who built Sigiriya fortress in Sri Lanka?", "output": "King Kashyapa developed Sigiriya city and fortress."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Osterville Baptist Church is an historic Baptist church building at 824 Main Street in the Osterville village of Barnstable, Massachusetts. The white clapboarded wood-frame structure was built in 1837 for a congregation formed two years earlier. It is one of the older buildings in Osterville, and is a fine example of the Greek Revival with Gothic Revival elements. The church was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1987.\n\nDescription and history\nThe Osterville Baptist Church is set prominently in the center of Osterville on the north side of the junction of Main Street and Wianno Avenue. It is rectangular single-story wood-frame structure, with a gable roof, vinyl siding, and a brick foundation. Its exterior features a mix of Greek Revival and Gothic Revival styling, with corner paneled pilasters rising to entablatures running along the sides of the building, and lancet-arched panels above its windows. Its facade is symmetrically arranged, with a pair of entrances, each framed by sidelight windows and pilasters, with an entablature and cornice on top, and sash windows above. A single lancet-arch panel adorns the center of the gable end. The church has a two-stage square tower, with a plain first stage topped by a belfry with lancet-arched louvered openings, and a steeple above.\n\nThe church congregation was organized in 1835 as the Second Barnstable Baptist Church, and this church was dedicated in 1838, having been built on land given by Captain George Lovell. Its steeple is a reconstruction of the original, which was lost in a hurricane in 1945. The church interior was remodeled in 1889, at which time a heating system was added. Further additions have been made to the rear of the building, adding classroom, meeting, and office spaces.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Osterville Baptist Church, tell me why its steeple was rebuilt and when it was listed on the National Register of Historic Places.", "output": "The Osterville Baptist Church was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1987. The church's original steeple had to be replaced because it was damaged during a hurricane in 1945."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The UFC was founded by businessman Art Davie and Brazilian martial artist Rorion Gracie, and the first event was held in 1993 at the McNichols Sports Arena in Denver, Colorado. The purpose of the early Ultimate Fighting Championship competitions was to identify the most effective martial art in a contest with minimal rules and no weight classes between competitors of different fighting disciplines.\n Question: Given a reference about the creation of the UFC, tell me the member of the Gracie family  who co-created the UFC and the city they hosted the first UFC event.", "output": "Rorion Gracie is the co-creator. The first event was held in Denver. Colorado."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The system was proclaimed complete in 1992, but two of the original Interstates\u2014I-95 and I-70\u2014were not continuous: both of these discontinuities were due to local opposition, which blocked efforts to build the necessary connections to fully complete the system. I-95 was made a continuous freeway in 2018, and thus I-70 remains the only original Interstate with a discontinuity.\n\nI-95 was discontinuous in New Jersey because of the cancellation of the Somerset Freeway. This situation was remedied when the construction of the Pennsylvania Turnpike/Interstate 95 Interchange Project started in 2010 and partially opened on September 22, 2018, which was already enough to fill the gap.\n\nHowever, I-70 remains discontinuous in Pennsylvania, because of the lack of a direct interchange with the Pennsylvania Turnpike at the eastern end of the concurrency near Breezewood. Traveling in either direction, I-70 traffic must exit the freeway and use a short stretch of US-30 (which includes a number of roadside services) to rejoin I-70. The interchange was not originally built because of a legacy federal funding rule, since relaxed, which restricted the use of federal funds to improve roads financed with tolls. Solutions have been proposed to eliminate the discontinuity, but they have been blocked by local opposition, fearing a loss of business.\n Question: Given this paragraph, which two US interstates were not originally continuous? Have they now been made continuous?", "output": "The two discontinuous interstates were the I-95 and the I-70. The I-95 was discontinuous up until September 22, 2018 when the construction of the Pennsylvania Turnpike/Interstate was completed. The I-70, however, remains discontinuous."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Platylesches robustus, the robust hopper or large hopper, is a butterfly of the family Hesperiidae. It is found in Zululand, Eswatini, Transvaal, Mozambique and Zimbabwe. The habitat consists of moist, frost-free savanna and the transitional zone between forest and Guinea savanna.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Platylesches Robustus, what type of insect is it and how many countries can it be found?", "output": "The Platylesches robustus is a butterfly and it can be found in five different countries."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ralph continues trying to cross the border. The Spade army begins crossing the border in a mechanized citadel called Candelo powered by siphoning magic from Spade commoners. Asta, who has grown even stronger and can now fly astride his demon slayer sword, flies to Candelo where he is enraged to see Spade Knights siphoning prisoners to death. Asta confronts Candelo\u2019s commander who reveals he is also the vessel for a devil. He poisons Asta with poison magic but Asta easily absorbs the poison into the demon destroyer sword and furiously cuts the citadel in half, defeating the captain in a single blow. The Bulls arrive and Mimosa helps the prisoners recover. Noelle reveals Luck and Leopold were sent to destroy the Spade base near to the prisoner\u2019s village. Realising they get to return home safely the prisoners reveal the Spade kingdom is ruled by the Dark Triad, each possessed by a powerful devil, and their followers the Dark Disciples who draw demonic power from the Triad. The Triad, siblings Dante, Vanica and Zenon Zogratis, consider the loss of Candelo trivial when they are close to their goal for which they only need capture two Arcane Stage mages. Ralph finally crosses the border and collapses by Hage Church where Sister Lily finds him calling out for \u201cPrince Yuno\u201d.\n Question: In the summary below of episode 158 of the series Black Clover, how did the Spade army lose?", "output": "Asta countered the Spade Kingdom's commandor's poison attack with the demon destroyer sword, then cut the attacking citadel in half, defeating the captain in a single blow."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In late 2019, Fincher began developing a television prequel to the 1974 film Chinatown with its screenwriter Robert Towne, and he has also expressed interest in eventually making a third season of Mindhunter, which was put on indefinite hold in 2020. In 2023, Fincher confirmed that Netflix will not be making a third season of Mindhunter, saying \"I\u2019m very proud of the first two seasons. But it\u2019s a very expensive show and, in the eyes of Netflix, we didn\u2019t attract enough of an audience to justify such an investment [for Season 3].\"\n\nIn February 2021, it was reported that Fincher will direct an adaptation of the graphic novel The Killer for Netflix, with Andrew Kevin Walker writing the screenplay and Michael Fassbender attached to star.\n Question: GIven this paragraph about American film director David Fincher, what are his reported upcoming projects.", "output": "David Fincher has begun development on a prequel to the 1974 film Chinatown.  It has also been reported that he will direct an adaptation of the graphic novel The Killer."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Cerro Arenal Natural Reserve was declared a protected area on November 4, 1991, it compromises one of 78 protected areas of Nicaragua and is managed by Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA).\n\nThe highest point in the reserve is located inside a tropical cloud forest 1,570 meters above sea level, rain occurs 8 months annually, between May and December. Cerro Arenal Natural Reserve is one of the smallest protected areas of Nicaragua and is abundant with flora and fauna.  Many animals are present throughout the reserve, animals such as monkeys, and armadillos. The reserve also contains the oldest oak trees in Central America.\n Question: Where are the oldest oak trees in Central America?", "output": "The oldest oak trees reside in the Cerro Arenal Natural Reserve, which was officially declared a protected area on November 4, 1991."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Northam ran for Lieutenant Governor of Virginia in the 2013 election. Northam competed against U.S. Chief Technology Officer Aneesh Chopra for the Democratic nomination. On June 11, 2013, Northam won the Democratic primary over Chopra with 54% of the vote to Chopra's 46%.\n\nOn November 5, 2013, Northam was elected as Virginia's 40th Lieutenant Governor over Republican E. W. Jackson, receiving 55% of the vote to Jackson's 45%. Northam was the first Democrat since Tim Kaine in 2001 to be elected Lieutenant Governor of Virginia.\n Question: By what percentage of vote margin did Ralph Northam win over Aneesh Chopra in the 2013 election for Governor of Virginia?", "output": "8 percent"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Easter eggs, also called Paschal eggs, are eggs that are decorated for the Christian feast of Easter, which celebrates the resurrection of Jesus. As such, Easter eggs are common during the season of Eastertide (Easter season). The oldest tradition, which continues to be used in Central and Eastern Europe, is to use dyed and painted chicken eggs.\n\nAlthough eggs, in general, were a traditional symbol of fertility and rebirth, in Christianity, for the celebration of Eastertide, Easter eggs symbolize the empty tomb of Jesus, from which Jesus was resurrected. In addition, one ancient tradition was the staining of Easter eggs with the colour red \"in memory of the blood of Christ, shed as at that time of his crucifixion.\"\n\nThis custom of the Easter egg, according to many sources, can be traced to early Christians of Mesopotamia, and from there it spread into Eastern Europe and Siberia through the Orthodox Churches, and later into Europe through the Catholic and Protestant Churches. Mediaevalist scholars normally conclude that the custom of Easter eggs has its roots in the prohibition of eggs during Lent after which, on Easter, they have been blessed for the occasion.\n\nA modern custom in some places is to substitute chocolate eggs wrapped in coloured foil, hand-carved wooden eggs, or plastic eggs filled with confectionery such as chocolate.\n Question: Why are people eating eggs at Easter", "output": "Easter eggs, also called Paschal eggs, are eggs that are decorated for the Christian feast of Easter, which celebrates the resurrection of Jesus. As such, Easter eggs are common during the season of Eastertide (Easter season). The oldest tradition, which continues to be used in Central and Eastern Europe, is to use dyed and painted chicken eggs.\n\nAlthough eggs, in general, were a traditional symbol of fertility and rebirth, in Christianity, for the celebration of Eastertide, Easter eggs symbolize the empty tomb of Jesus, from which Jesus was resurrected. In addition, one ancient tradition was the staining of Easter eggs with the colour red \"in memory of the blood of Christ, shed as at that time of his crucifixion.\"\n\nThis custom of the Easter egg, according to many sources, can be traced to early Christians of Mesopotamia, and from there it spread into Eastern Europe and Siberia through the Orthodox Churches, and later into Europe through the Catholic and Protestant Churches. Mediaevalist scholars normally conclude that the custom of Easter eggs has its roots in the prohibition of eggs during Lent after which, on Easter, they have been blessed for the occasion.\n\nA modern custom in some places is to substitute chocolate eggs wrapped in coloured foil, hand-carved wooden eggs, or plastic eggs filled with confectionery such as chocolate."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In computing, a materialized view is a database object that contains the results of a query. For example, it may be a local copy of data located remotely, or may be a subset of the rows and/or columns of a table or join result, or may be a summary using an aggregate function.\n Question: What is Materialized View?", "output": "In Database, a materialized view (MV) is a database object that stores the results of a query. It can be a copy of data from a remote location, a subset of rows and/or columns from a table or join result, or a summary using an aggregate function. MV is normally used for frequent queries of based tables."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Howe retired for the first time in 1971 and was immediately inducted into the Saskatchewan Sports Hall of Fame that same year. He was then inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame the next year, but came back two years later to join his sons Mark and Marty on the Houston Aeros of the WHA. Although in his mid-40s, he scored over 100 points twice in six years, won two straight Avco World Trophies (1974 and 1975) and was named most valuable player in 1974. He made a brief return to the NHL in 1979\u201380, playing one season with the Hartford Whalers, then retired at age 52. His involvement with the WHA was central to their brief pre-NHL merger success, forcing the NHL to recruit European talent and expand to new markets.\n Question: How many times did Gordie Howe retire?", "output": "Based on the provided information, Howe retired two times.\n\nHowe retired for the first time in 1971, but then later joined his sons Mark and Marty on the Houston Aeros of the WHA. Howe would then return to the NHL in 1979 where he played one season before retiring for a second time."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Detective Hieronymus \"Harry\" Bosch is a fictional character created by American author Michael Connelly. Bosch debuted as the lead character in the 1992 novel The Black Echo, the first in a best-selling police procedural series now numbering 24 novels.\n\nThe novels are more or less coincident in timeframe with the year in which they were published. Harry, as he is commonly known by his associates, is a veteran police homicide detective with the Los Angeles Police Department. He was named after the 15th-century Dutch artist Hieronymus Bosch.\n\nTitus Welliver portrayed the title character from 2015 to 2021 in Bosch, a television series adapted from the novels, and from 2022 in its spin-off series Bosch: Legacy.\n Question: What was the first Harry Bosch book called?", "output": "The first novel in the Harry Bosch series  by Michael Connelly was The Black Echo, published in 1992."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Thomas Cruise Mapother IV (born July 3, 1962) is an American actor and producer. One of the world's highest-paid actors, he has received various accolades, including an Honorary Palme d'Or and three Golden Globe Awards, in addition to nominations for four Academy Awards. His films have grossed over $4 billion in North America and over $11.5 billion worldwide, making him one of the highest-grossing box-office stars of all time.\n Question: Given a reference text about Tom Cruise, tell me when they were born and what they are famous for.", "output": "Tom Cruise was born on July 3rd, 1962. He is famous for being an American actor and producer and winning three golden globes."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Arab Spring (Arabic: \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0628\u064a\u0639 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0631\u0628\u064a) was a series of anti-government protests, uprisings and armed rebellions that spread across much of the Arab world in the early 2010s. It began in Tunisia in response to corruption and economic stagnation. From Tunisia, the protests then spread to five other countries: Libya, Egypt, Yemen, Syria and Bahrain. Rulers were deposed (Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, Muammar Gaddafi, Hosni Mubarak, Ali Abdullah Saleh) or major uprisings and social violence occurred including riots, civil wars, or insurgencies. Sustained street demonstrations took place in Morocco, Iraq, Algeria, Lebanon, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman and Sudan. Minor protests took place in Djibouti, Mauritania, Palestine, Saudi Arabia and the Moroccan-occupied Western Sahara. A major slogan of the demonstrators in the Arab world is ash-sha\u02bbb yur\u012bd isq\u0101\u1e6d an-ni\u1e93\u0101m! (Arabic: \u0627\u0644\u0634\u0639\u0628 \u064a\u0631\u064a\u062f \u0625\u0633\u0642\u0627\u0637 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0638\u0627\u0645, lit.\u2009'the people want to bring down the regime').\n Question: Which nation started the Arab Spring and what caused it?", "output": "The Arab Spring began in Tunisia in response to corruption and economic stagnation. From Tunisia, the protests then spread to five other countries: Libya, Egypt, Yemen, Syria and Bahrain."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The formula defines the energy E of a particle in its rest frame as the product of mass (m) with the speed of light squared (c2). Because the speed of light is a large number in everyday units (approximately 300000 km/s or 186000 mi/s), the formula implies that a small amount of \"rest mass\", measured when the system is at rest, corresponds to an enormous amount of energy, which is independent of the composition of the matter.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Mass\u2013energy equivalence, tell me what each part of the equation E=mc\u00b2 stands for.", "output": "E is for energy, m is for mass, and c\u00b2 is for the speed of light squared"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Homelessness in the San Francisco Bay Area\n\nOne of the primary causes of homelessness in the Bay Area is an insufficient supply of affordable housing. Mass homelessness has several contributing factors, including: \"Economic Dislocation\", \"Reduced Social Safety Nets\", \"Failed Housing Policy\", \"Mass Incarceration\", \"Family Instability\", and other \"Individual Causes\" including mental health and physical wellness. Reasons cited for homelessness in the 2019 survey commissioned by the City of San Francisco include job loss (26%), alcohol/drug use (18%), eviction (13%), argument/asked to leave by friend/family (12%), mental health issues (8%), and divorce/separation (5%). 70% of people homeless in San Francisco in 2019 reported most recently becoming homeless while living in San Francisco: 22% came from another county within California, and 8% came from another state. However, of the 70% who had become homeless while living in San Francisco, 45% had only been in San Francisco for ten years or less, and 6% had only been in San Francisco for one year or less. Reasons for coming from outside San Francisco at the time of homelessness include seeking a job (25%), LGBTQ acceptance (11%), accessing homeless services (22%), was visiting and decided to stay (17%), accessing VA services or clinic (5%), and family/friends are here (13%).\n Question: Based on the reference text, what were the main reasons homeless people from outside of San Francisco went to San Francisco?", "output": "The reasons homeless people not from San Francisco went to San Francisco include:\n1. Seeking a job\n2. LGBTQ acceptance\n3. Accessing homeless services\n4. Was visiting and decided to stay\n5. Family or friends live in San Francisco\n6. Accessing VA services or clinic"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta was born on March 28, 1986, at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, New York City, to an upper middle class Catholic family. Both of her parents have Italian ancestry. Her parents are Cynthia Louise (n\u00e9e Bissett), a philanthropist and business executive, and Internet entrepreneur Joseph Germanotta, and she has a younger sister named Natali. Brought up on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, Gaga said in an interview that her parents came from lower-class families and worked hard for everything. From age 11, she attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart, a private all-girls Roman Catholic school. Gaga has described her high-school self as \"very dedicated, very studious, very disciplined\" but also \"a bit insecure\". She considered herself a misfit and was mocked for \"being either too provocative or too eccentric\"\n Question: Given this paragraph on Lady Gaga, tell me where she was born, the middle and high school she attended and how she considered herself in high school.", "output": "Lady Gaga was born at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, New York City. From age 11 Lady Gaga attended  Convent of Sacred Heart, an all-girls Roman Catholic school. In high school she considered herself a misfit."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Denis Th\u00e9riault (born August 24, 1959) is a Canadian author, playwright and screenwriter of French-Canadian descent..\n Question: In which century was Denis Th\u00e9riault born?", "output": "The 20th century"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ironsand, also known as iron-sand or iron sand, is a type of sand with heavy concentrations of iron. It is typically dark grey or blackish in colour.\n\nIt is composed mainly of magnetite, Fe3O4, and also contains small amounts of titanium, silica, manganese, calcium and vanadium.\n\nIronsand has a tendency to heat up in direct sunlight, causing temperatures high enough to cause minor burns. As such it forms a hazard in New Zealand at popular west-coast surf beaches such as Piha.\n Question: How many iron atoms are in a single molecule of the main component substance of ironsand?", "output": "The main component of ironsand is magnetite, which has chemical formula Fe3O4. Because Fe is the chemical symbol for iron and it is followed by a 3 in this formula, there are 3 iron atoms per magnetite molecule."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A three-fund portfolio is based on the fundamental asset classes, stocks and bonds. It is assumed that cash is not counted within the investment portfolio, so it is not included. On the other hand, it is assumed that every investor should hold both domestic and international stocks. The task, then, is to take these three basic non-cash assets \u2014 domestic stocks, international stocks, and bonds \u2014 decide how much of each to hold (your asset allocation); choose where to hold each of these asset classes, and finally choose a mutual fund to use for each asset class.\n Question: Suggest an allocation to implement a three portfolio strategy as described in the text below", "output": "From Vanguard's list of \"core funds,\" the funds that are best for a three-fund portfolio are:\n\nVanguard Total Stock Market Index Fund (VTSAX)\nVanguard Total International Stock Index Fund (VTIAX)\nVanguard Total Bond Market Fund (VBTLX)\nSo, a \"three-fund portfolio\" might consist of 42% Total Stock Market Index, 18% Total International Stock Index, and 40% Total Bond Market fund."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Our War (Italian: La nostra guerra) is a 2016 Italian-American documentary film directed by Bruno Chiaravalloti, Claudio Jampaglia and Benedetta Argentieri. It premiered out of competition at the 73rd edition of the Venice Film Festival. It tells the story of three foreign fighters joining the Kurdish forces to fight Deash.\n Question: Given the following paragraph about a film, who directed \"Our War\"?", "output": "Bruno Chiaravalloti"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Supermarine Spitfire is a British single-seat fighter aircraft used by the Royal Air Force and other Allied countries before, during, and after World War II. Many variants of the Spitfire were built, from the Mk 1 to the Rolls-Royce Griffon-engined Mk 24 using several wing configurations and guns. It was the only British fighter produced continuously throughout the war. The Spitfire remains popular among enthusiasts; around 70 remain airworthy, and many more are static exhibits in aviation museums throughout the world.\n Question: How many Spitfire fighter aircraft remain airworthy", "output": "around 70 remain airworthy"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: An outdoor observation deck, named At the Top, opened on 5 January 2010 on the 124th floor. At 452 m (1,483 ft), it was the highest outdoor observation deck in the world when it opened. Although it was surpassed in December 2011 by Cloud Top 488 on the Canton Tower, Guangzhou at 488 m (1,601 ft), Burj Khalifa opened the 148th floor SKY level at 555 m (1,821 ft), once again giving it the highest observation deck in the world on 15 October 2014, until the Shanghai Tower opened in June 2016 with an observation deck at a height of 561 metres. The 124th floor observation deck also features the electronic telescope, an augmented reality device developed by Gsmprjct\u00b0 of Montr\u00e9al, which allows visitors to view the surrounding landscape in real-time, and to view previously saved images such as those taken at different times of day or under different weather conditions. To reduce the daily rush of sightseers, management allows visitors to purchase tickets in advance for a specific date and time, at a 75% discount on tickets purchased on the spot.\n Question: Given the following paragraph about the observation deck of the Burj Khalifa, what's offered on the 124th floor observation deck?", "output": "This observation deck offers an augmented reality electronic telescope which lets visitors view either real-time or pre-recorded images of the surrounding landscape."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The XYZ Affair was a political and diplomatic episode in 1797 and 1798, early in the presidency of John Adams, involving a confrontation between the United States and Republican France that led to the Quasi-War. The name derives from the substitution of the letters X, Y, and Z for the names of French diplomats Jean-Conrad Hottinguer (X), Pierre Bellamy (Y), and Lucien Hauteval (Z) in documents released by the Adams administration.\n Question: What was the \"X.Y.Z. fever\"?", "output": "The \"X.Y.Z. fevor\" is a reference to a diplomatic incident that occurred during the administration of the second President of the United Status, John Adams.   Adams sent a diplomatic delegation to France to negotiate a resolution of issues that were threatening to lead to war.  The French foreign minister, Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand-P\u00e9rigord (Talleyrand) demanded a bribe and a loan to begin the negotiations.   President Adams refused Tallyrand's request and reported the solicitation to Congress.  The Senate printed President Adam's report which referred to the three French diplomats involved, Jean-Conrad Hottinguer, Pierre Bellamy, and Lucien Hauteval as \"X,Y, and Z\" respectively.   \nThe populace supported Adams decision to refuse Tallyrand's bribe request.  Vice-President Thomas Jefferson referred to the outpouring of support for Adam's political party that followed  as \"X.Y.Z. fevor\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tibet (/t\u026a\u02c8b\u025bt/ (listen); Tibetan: \u0f56\u0f7c\u0f51\u0f0b, Lhasa dialect: [p\u02b0\u00f8\u02d0\u02e8\u02e7\u02e9] B\u00f6d; Chinese: \u897f\u85cf; pinyin: X\u012bz\u00e0ng) is a region in Asia, covering much of the Tibetan Plateau and spanning about 2,500,000 km2 (970,000 sq mi). It is the homeland of the Tibetan people. Also resident on the plateau are some other ethnic groups such as the Monpa, Tamang, Qiang, Sherpa and Lhoba peoples and, since the 20th century, considerable numbers of Han Chinese and Hui settlers. Since the 1951 annexation of Tibet by the People's Republic of China, the entire plateau has been under the administration of the People's Republic of China. Tibet is divided administratively into the Tibet Autonomous Region, and parts of the Qinghai and Sichuan provinces.Tibet is the highest region on Earth, with an average elevation of 4,380 m (14,000 ft). Located in the Himalayas, the highest elevation in Tibet is Mount Everest, Earth's highest mountain, rising 8,848.86 m (29,032 ft) above sea level.\n\nThe Tibetan Empire emerged in the 7th century. At its height in the 9th century, the Tibetan Empire extended far beyond the Tibetan Plateau, from the Tarim Basin and Pamirs in the west, to Yunnan and Bengal in the southeast. It then divided into a variety of territories. The bulk of western and central Tibet (\u00dc-Tsang) was often at least nominally unified under a series of Tibetan governments in Lhasa, Shigatse, or nearby locations. The eastern regions of Kham and Amdo often maintained a more decentralized indigenous political structure, being divided among a number of small principalities and tribal groups, while also often falling under Chinese rule; most of this area was eventually annexed into the Chinese provinces of Sichuan and Qinghai. The current borders of Tibet were generally established in the 18th century.\n Question: How big is the Tibetan plateau?", "output": "The Tibetan Plateau spans about 2,500,000 km2"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Muckle Water is a long, narrow fresh water loch on Ward Hill on Rousay, Orkney, Scotland. It is the biggest loch on the island and is popular for fishing. It can be reached by a track from the roadside. The Suso Burn on the north eastern shore drains the loch into the Sound of Rousay.\n Question: Where is Muckle Water?", "output": "Muckle water is located in Rousay, Orkney, Scotland."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A first-degree relative (FDR) is a person's parent (father or mother), full sibling (brother or sister) or child. It constitutes a category of family members that largely overlaps with the term nuclear family, but without spouses.\n Question: How do the definitions of \"first-degree relative\" and \"nuclear family\" differ?", "output": "Nuclear family includes spouses while first-degree relatives are only blood related."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jesus Shuttlesworth, the top high-school basketball player in the United States, is being pursued by the top college basketball programs in the nation. His father, Jake, is a convicted felon serving time at Attica Correctional Facility for accidentally killing his wife, Martha, Jesus' mother, six years earlier. Jake is granted a work release by the governor, an influential alumnus of \"Big State,\" one of the colleges Jesus is considering, so that he might persuade his son to sign with Big State. If successful, he'll get an early release from prison.\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/He_Got_Game\n Question: Based on this paragraph, why was Jake released from prison?", "output": "Jake was released from prison to try to help convince his son to play basketball for the governor's alma mater."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Marvin's Room is a 1996 American drama film directed by Jerry Zaks. The script was written by John Guare and based on the play of the same name by Scott McPherson, who died in 1992. McPherson had completed a screenplay for a film version before he died; however Guare was hired to update it when the film eventually started production years later.\n\nIt stars Meryl Streep, Leonardo DiCaprio, Diane Keaton, Robert De Niro, Hume Cronyn, Gwen Verdon, Hal Scardino and Dan Hedaya. Original music for the film was composed by Rachel Portman. Carly Simon wrote and performed the theme song \"Two Little Sisters\", with Meryl Streep adding background vocals.\n Question: Who composed the theme song for the movie Marvin's Room?", "output": "The musician that composed the original music for the Marvin's room was Rachel Portoman, and Carly Simon wrote and performed the song."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A battery storage power station is a type of energy storage power station that uses a group of batteries to store electrical energy. Battery storage is the fastest responding dispatchable source of power on electric grids, and it is used to stabilise those grids, as battery storage can transition from standby to full power in under a second to deal with grid contingencies.\n\nAt full rated power, battery storage power stations are generally designed to output for up to a few hours. Battery storage can be used for short-term peak power and ancillary services, such as providing operating reserve and frequency control to minimize the chance of power outages. They are often installed at, or close to, other active or disused power stations and may share the same grid connection to reduce costs. Since battery storage plants require no deliveries of fuel, are compact compared to generating stations and have no chimneys or large cooling systems, they can be rapidly installed and placed if necessary within urban areas, close to customer load.\n Question: Given these paragraphs about battery storage power stations, for how long a battery storage power station can output?", "output": "At full rated power, battery storage power stations are generally designed to output for up to a few hours."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Patriots hired head coach Bill Belichick, who had served as defensive coordinator under Parcells including during Super Bowl XXXI, in 2000. Their new home field, Gillette Stadium, opened in 2002 to replace the aging Foxboro Stadium. Long\u2013time starting quarterback Drew Bledsoe, who was the franchise's star throughout the 1990s, went down with a sheared blood vessel in his chest in a week two match\u2013up in 2001 against the rival New York Jets. Backup quarterback Tom Brady, drafted by the Patriots in sixth round of the 2000 NFL draft, became the starting quarterback. Brady's successful play led to Bledsoe never getting his job back as a starter, and would serve as the franchise's starting quarterback for the next 18 years. Under Belichick and Brady, the Patriots became one of the most consistently dominant teams in the NFL, with many describing the team as a \"dynasty\". Within the first few seasons of the 21st century, the team won three Super Bowls in four seasons (2001, 2003, and 2004), over the St. Louis Rams, Carolina Panthers, and Philadelphia Eagles, respectively. The Patriots finished the 2007 regular season with a perfect 16\u20130 record, becoming only the fourth team in league history to go undefeated in the regular season, and the only one since the league expanded its regular season schedule to 16 games. After advancing to Super Bowl XLII, the team's fourth Super Bowl in seven years, the Patriots were upset by the Giants to end their bid for a 19\u20130 season. With the loss, the Patriots ended the year at 18\u20131, becoming only one of three teams to go 18\u20131 along with the 1984 San Francisco 49ers and the 1985 Chicago Bears. However, both the Bears and 49ers lost their only game during the regular season, and both would win their respective Super Bowl.\n\nThe Patriots returned to the Super Bowl in 2011 but lost again to the Giants, 21\u201317. In 2014, the Patriots reached a record-tying eighth Super Bowl, where they defeated the defending champion Seattle Seahawks by a score of 28\u201324 to win Super Bowl XLIX for their fourth title. After Seattle had driven the ball to New England's 1-yard line with under a minute to go, New England rookie cornerback Malcolm Butler made a critical interception on Seattle's final offensive play that helped to seal the victory. New England became the first team to reach nine Super Bowls in the 2016\u201317 playoffs and faced the Atlanta Falcons in Super Bowl LI. Losing 28\u20133 midway through the third quarter, the Patriots scored 25 unanswered points to tie the game in the final seconds of regulation. In the first overtime in Super Bowl history, the Patriots won the coin toss and scored a touchdown to claim their fifth Super Bowl victory. The Patriots extended their record to ten Super Bowl appearances in the 2017\u201318 playoffs but lost to the Philadelphia Eagles in Super Bowl LII. The Patriots returned to the championship game for a third consecutive season in Super Bowl LIII, where they defeated the Los Angeles Rams 13\u20133 to win their sixth Super Bowl, tying them with the Pittsburgh Steelers for most Super Bowl victories in NFL history.\n Question: Based on this passage, which years did the Patriots win the Super Bowl?", "output": "The Patriots won the Super Bowl in 2001, 2003, 2004, 2014, 2017, and 2019."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Robert Frederick Chelsea Moore OBE (12 April 1941 \u2013 24 February 1993) was an English professional footballer. He most notably played for West Ham United, captaining the club for more than ten years, and was the captain of the England national team that won the 1966 FIFA World Cup. He is widely regarded as one of the greatest defenders in the history of football, and was cited by Pel\u00e9 as the greatest defender that he had ever played against.\n Question: When was Bobby Moore born and when did he die?", "output": "Bobby Moore was born in 1941 and died in 1993."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Elemental magnesium is a gray-white lightweight metal, two-thirds the density of aluminium. Magnesium has the lowest melting (923 K (650 \u00b0C)) and the lowest boiling point 1,363 K (1,090 \u00b0C) of all the alkaline earth metals.\n Question: Given this paragraph about magnesium, what is the melting point of magnesium in celsius?", "output": "The melting point of magnesium is 650 \u00b0C."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Over the past 3,000 years, the city of Beijing has had numerous other names. The name Beijing, which means \"Northern Capital\" (from the Chinese characters \u5317 for north and \u4eac for capital), was applied to the city in 1403 during the Ming dynasty to distinguish the city from Nanjing (the \"Southern Capital\"). The English spelling Beijing is based on the government's official romanization (adopted in the 1980s) of the two characters as they are pronounced in Standard Mandarin. An older English spelling, Peking(\u5317\u5e73 in Chinese meaning), was used by Jesuit missionary Martino Martini in a popular atlas published in Amsterdam in 1655. Although Peking is no longer the common name for the city, some of the city's older locations and facilities, such as Beijing Capital International Airport, with the IATA Code PEK, and Peking University, still retain the former romanization.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the history of Beijing, when did Beijing get the current name?", "output": "In 1403, during the Ming dynasty, Beijing got its current name."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Easter eggs, also called Paschal eggs, are eggs that are decorated for the Christian feast of Easter, which celebrates the resurrection of Jesus. As such, Easter eggs are common during the season of Eastertide (Easter season). The oldest tradition, which continues to be used in Central and Eastern Europe, is to use dyed and painted chicken eggs.\n\nAlthough eggs, in general, were a traditional symbol of fertility and rebirth, in Christianity, for the celebration of Eastertide, Easter eggs symbolize the empty tomb of Jesus, from which Jesus was resurrected. In addition, one ancient tradition was the staining of Easter eggs with the colour red \"in memory of the blood of Christ, shed as at that time of his crucifixion.\"\n\nThis custom of the Easter egg, according to many sources, can be traced to early Christians of Mesopotamia, and from there it spread into Eastern Europe and Siberia through the Orthodox Churches, and later into Europe through the Catholic and Protestant Churches. Additionally, the widespread usage of Easter eggs, according to mediaevalist scholars, is due to the prohibition of eggs during Lent after which, on Easter, they have been blessed for the occasion.\n\nA modern custom in some places is to substitute chocolate eggs wrapped in coloured foil, hand-carved wooden eggs, or plastic eggs filled with confectionery such as chocolate.\n Question: Given a reference text about Easter eggs, tell me what they are, what they symbolize, and where they originated from?", "output": "Easter eggs are decorated eggs celebrating the Christian holiday of Easter. They symbolize the empty tomb of Jesus. They originated in Mesopotamia."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Aktepe first drew attention to herself by a series of incidents on Twitter. Aktepe, who opened a makeup channel on YouTube, gained a significant number of subscribers over a short period. Subsequently, her style of content diversified to include vlogs, joint broadcasts with singers, models, and other Internet celebrities. She also participated in various television programs. Throughout her career, Aktepe's behavior was occasionally criticized and legal proceedings were initiated by some individuals and institutions against her.\n Question: What type of YouTube Channel did Danla Bilic have?", "output": "Danla Bilic started a makeup channel on YouTube."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sim\u00f3n Jos\u00e9 Antonio de la Sant\u00edsima Trinidad Bol\u00edvar y Palacios (24 July 1783 \u2013 17 December 1830) was a Venezuelan military and political leader who led what are currently the countries of Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Peru, Panama and Bolivia to independence from the Spanish Empire. He is known colloquially as El Libertador, or the Liberator of America. Sim\u00f3n Bol\u00edvar was born in Caracas in the Captaincy General of Venezuela into a wealthy family of American-born Spaniards (criollo), but lost both parents as a child. Bol\u00edvar was educated abroad and lived in Spain, as was common for men of upper-class families in his day. While living in Madrid from 1800 to 1802, he was introduced to Enlightenment philosophy and married Mar\u00eda Teresa Rodr\u00edguez del Toro y Alaysa, who died in Venezuela from yellow fever in 1803. From 1803 to 1805, Bol\u00edvar embarked on a Grand Tour that ended in Rome, where he swore to end the Spanish rule in the Americas. In 1807, Bol\u00edvar returned to Venezuela and proposed gaining Venezuelan independence to other wealthy creoles. When the Spanish authority in the Americas weakened due to Napoleon's Peninsular War, Bol\u00edvar became a zealous combatant and politician in the Spanish American wars of independence.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Simon Bolivar, tell me when and where they were born, and what they are known for", "output": "Simon Bolivar was born in Caracas, Venezuela on 24 July 1783. He is known for leading the wars of independence from the Spanish Empire from what are currently the countries of Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Peru, Panama and Bolivia"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 97th Rifle Division was thrice formed as an infantry division of the Red Army, first as part of the prewar buildup of forces. The first formation was based on the pre-September 1939 shtat (table of organization and equipment) and the division was initially intended to serve in the fortifications along the border with Poland in western Ukraine. Beginning on September 17, 1939 it took part in the invasion of eastern Poland and then was moved north to join the 7th Army and later the 13th Army on the Karelian Isthmus during the Winter War against Finland where it saw action in the latter part of the struggle. Following this it returned to western Ukraine where it was on the border at the time of the German invasion in June 1941. At considerable cost it was able to retreat back to the Dniepr River south of Kiev during July and was still there as part of 26th Army when the Soviet forces in eastern Ukraine were largely surrounded and wiped out in September. The division was finally disbanded in late December.\n Question: What was the 97th Rifle Division", "output": "The 97th Rifle Division was thrice formed as an infantry division of the Red Army, first as part of the prewar buildup of forces. The first formation was based on the pre-September 1939 shtat (table of organization and equipment) and the division was initially intended to serve in the fortifications along the border with Poland in western Ukraine. \n\nBeginning on September 17, 1939 it took part in the invasion of eastern Poland and then was moved north to join the 7th Army and later the 13th Army on the Karelian Isthmus during the Winter War against Finland where it saw action in the latter part of the struggle."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: When the modern Olympics began in 1896, the initiators and organizers were looking for a great popularizing event, recalling the glory of ancient Greece. The idea of a marathon race came from Michel Br\u00e9al, who wanted the event to feature in the first modern Olympic Games in 1896 in Athens. This idea was heavily supported by Pierre de Coubertin, the founder of the modern Olympics, as well as by the Greeks. The Greeks staged a selection race for the Olympic marathon on 22 March 1896 (Gregorian) that was won by Charilaos Vasilakos in 3 hours and 18 minutes (with the future winner of the introductory Olympic Games marathon, Spyridon \"Spyros\" Louis, coming in fifth at a second race two weeks later). The winner of the first Olympic marathon, on 10 April 1896 (a male-only race), was Spyridon Louis, a Greek water-carrier, in 2 hours 58 minutes and 50 seconds. The marathon of the 2004 Summer Olympics was run on the traditional route from Marathon to Athens, ending at Panathinaiko Stadium, the venue for the 1896 Summer Olympics. That men's marathon was won by Italian Stefano Baldini in 2 hours 10 minutes and 55 seconds, a record time for this route until the non-Olympics Athens Classic Marathon of 2014, when Felix Kandie lowered the course record to 2 hours 10 minutes and 37 seconds.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the history of the marathon, who won the first official olympic marathon.", "output": "Spyridon Louis was the first winner of the Olympic Marathon on 10 April 1896."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Max Verstappen is the youngest winner of a Grand Prix; he was 18 years and 228 days old when he won the 2016 Spanish Grand Prix\n Question: Who is the youngest driver to win a Formula 1 race?", "output": "Max Verstappen is the youngest driver to win a F1 race with 18 years and 228 days old at the 2016 Spanish Grand Prix, during his first race at Red Bull Racing Team"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Geling Yan (simplified Chinese: \u4e25\u6b4c\u82d3; traditional Chinese: \u56b4\u6b4c\u82d3; pinyin: Y\u00e1n G\u0113l\u00edng; born 16 November 1958]) is a Chinese-American author and screenwriter. Yan began performing as a dancer at age 12. She served in the People's Liberation Army in Chengdu, during the Cultural Revolution in Tibet and later as a journalist in the Sino-Vietnamese War, achieving a rank equivalent to lieutenant colonel.\n Question: What career did  GeLing Yan have?", "output": "She is an author, screenwriter, and once was a dancer and a journalist."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Holi ( /\u02c8ho\u028ali\u02d0/) is a popular and significant Hindu festival celebrated as the Festival of Colours, Love and Spring. It celebrates the eternal and divine love of the god Radha and Krishna. Additionally, the day also signifies the triumph of good over evil,as it commemorates the victory of Vishnu as Narasimha Narayana over Hiranyakashipu. Holi is originated and is predominantly celebrated in the Indian subcontinent but has also spread to other regions of Asia and parts of the Western world through the Indian diaspora.\n Question: Tell me about Holi and why so many people in the world celebrate it?", "output": "Holi is an festival celebrated by Hindus in India.  Even though it was originated by Hindu religion, it is celebrated across India irrespective of religion.  It has become a notable Indian cultural representation.  The reason so many people in the world celebrate it is because India has one of the largest population in the world."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (/\u02c8\u0261\u0251\u02d0ndi, \u02c8\u0261\u00e6ndi/ GA(H)N-dee, Gujarati: [\u02c8mo\u0266\u0259nd\u0251s \u02c8k\u0259\u027e\u0259mt\u0283\u0259nd \u02c8\u0261\u0251\u0303d\u02b1i]; 2 October 1869 \u2013 30 January 1948) was an Indian lawyer, anti-colonial nationalist and political ethicist. Employing nonviolent resistance, he led the successful campaign for India's independence from British rule. He inspired movements for civil rights and freedom across the world. The honorific Mah\u0101tm\u0101 (Sanskrit: \"great-souled\", \"venerable\"), first applied to him in 1914 in South Africa, is now used throughout the world.\n Question: When was Mahatma Gandhi born?", "output": "Mahatma Gandhi was born on October 2, 1869"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: For the undergraduate Class of 2023, the University of Virginia received a record 40,815 applications, admitting 24 percent. Approximately 40 percent of those admitted are non-white. Matriculated students come from all 50 states and 147 foreign countries. UVA is required, by Virginia state law, to matriculate two-thirds of its undergraduate student body from its pool of in-state applicants. As a result, its acceptance rate for in-state students (36 percent) is nearly twice the out-of-state rate (19 percent) as of 2019. The university has seen steady increases to its applicant pool in recent decades, and the number of applications has more than doubled since the Class of 2008 received 15,094 applications. As of 2014, 93 percent of admitted applicants ranked in the top 10 percent of their high school classes.\n Question: Given this paragraph, what is the out of state acceptance rate at the University of Virginia?", "output": "The out of state acceptance rate at the University of Virginia is 19%."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The company was named after akamai, which means 'clever,' or more colloquially, 'cool' in Hawaiian, which Lewin had discovered in a Hawaiian-English dictionary after the suggestion of a colleague.\n Question: What is the meaning of 'akamai'?", "output": "clever"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: USS Rachel Seaman was a wooden schooner purchased by the Union Navy during the American Civil War.\n Question: Was the USS Rachel Seaman built in the 20th century?", "output": "No, it was purchased during the American Civil War, so it was likely built in the 19th century."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Get Back is the first studio album by Australian rock and roll band The Basics. Released on 21 March 2003, the album consists of material composed by members Wally de Backer and Kris Schroeder. The album features De Backer, Schroeder, and original lead guitarist Michael Hubbard.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the rock band The Basics, what is notable about the Get Back album?", "output": "Get Back was their first studio album."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The children were sent mainly to the four Dominion countries, Canada 1,532 (in nine parties), Australia 577 (three parties), New Zealand 202 (two parties), and South Africa 353 (two parties), and 838 to the USA under the United States Committee for the Care of European Children programme. In the first few months over 211,000 children were registered with the scheme. A further 24,000 children had been approved for sailing in that time and over 1,000 volunteer escorts, including doctors and nurses, enrolled. It was planned as a temporary exile for the children, to return home to their families when conditions permitted.\n Question: In the first few months how many children were registered?", "output": "211,000 children were registered in the scheme in the first few months."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: By the first millennium BCE, ironworking had been introduced in Northern Africa. Around that time it also became established in parts of sub-Saharan Africa, either through independent invention there or diffusion from the north and vanished under unknown circumstances around 500 CE, having lasted approximately 2,000 years, and by 500 BCE, metalworking began to become commonplace in West Africa. Ironworking was fully established by roughly 500 BCE in many areas of East and West Africa, although other regions didn't begin ironworking until the early centuries CE. Copper objects from Egypt, North Africa, Nubia, and Ethiopia dating from around 500 BCE have been excavated in West Africa, suggesting that Trans-Saharan trade networks had been established by this date.\n Question: How long did it take for ironworking to be commonplace in West Africa following its introduction in Northern Africa?", "output": "Ironworking was introduced in Northern Africa around the first millennium BCE and became commonplace in West Africa by 500 BCE. This means it took 500 years (1000-500) for ironworking to become common in West Africa following its introduction in Northern Africa."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hawaii (/h\u0259\u02c8wa\u026ai/ (listen) h\u0259-WY-ee; Hawaiian: Hawai\u02bbi [h\u0259\u02c8v\u0250j\u0294i] or [h\u0259\u02c8w\u0250j\u0294i]) is a state in the Western United States, about 2,000 miles (3,200 km) from the U.S. mainland in the Pacific Ocean. It is the only U.S. state outside North America, the only state that is an archipelago, and the only state in the tropics.\n\nHawaii comprises nearly the entire Hawaiian archipelago, 137 volcanic islands spanning 1,500 miles (2,400 km) that are physiographically and ethnologically part of the Polynesian subregion of Oceania. The state's ocean coastline is consequently the fourth-longest in the U.S., at about 750 miles (1,210 km). The eight main islands, from northwest to southeast, are Ni\u02bbihau, Kaua\u02bbi, O\u02bbahu, Moloka\u02bbi, L\u0101na\u02bbi, Kaho\u02bbolawe, Maui, and Hawai\u02bbi\u2014the last of these, after which the state is named, is often called the \"Big Island\" or \"Hawaii Island\" to avoid confusion with the state or archipelago. The uninhabited Northwestern Hawaiian Islands make up most of the Papah\u0101naumoku\u0101kea Marine National Monument, the United States' largest protected area and the fourth-largest in the world.\n Question: According to this paragraph, what is the only state in North America that is an archpelago?", "output": "Hawaii is the only state in North America that is an archipelago, according to this text."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kirby Building Systems is a manufacturing company specialising in pre-engineered buildings. It was established in 1976 and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Alghanim Industries. Kirby has manufacturing facilities in Kuwait, Ras Al Khaimah, Hyderabad, Haridwar and Vietnam with a production capacity of over 400,000 MT per year. It has sales offices in 70 countries.\n Question: Name the two cities in India in which Kirby Building Systems produces their goods.", "output": "Haridwar and Hyderabad"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The official language of Tunisia is Modern Standard Arabic. The vast majority of Tunisia's population is Arab and Muslim. Vernacular Tunisian Arabic is the most spoken, and French also serves as an administrative and educational language in some contexts, but it has no official status.\n\nTunisia is well integrated into the international community. It is a member of the United Nations, La Francophonie, the Arab League, the OIC, the African Union, the COMESA, the Non-Aligned Movement, the International Criminal Court, and the Group of 77, among others. It maintains close economic and political relations with some European countries, particularly with France, and Italy, due to their geographical proximity. Tunisia also has an association agreement with the European Union and has attained the status of a major non-NATO ally of the United States.\n Question: What languages are spoken in Tunisia?", "output": "The official language of Tunisia is Modern Standard Arabic, though vernacular Tunisian Arabic is the most spoken. French also serves as an administrative and educational language in some contexts, but it has no official status."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Maskavas For\u0161tate (German: Moskauer Vorstadt) also known as Maskavas priek\u0161pils\u0113ta and colloquially as Maska\u010dka, is a suburb of Riga situated on the right bank of the Daugava. The neighborhood is located to the south of Old Riga along the road historically connecting Riga to Moscow, from which its name is derived.\n\nHistory\nSee also: Riga Ghetto\nThe history of Maskavas For\u0161tate, whose name in English literally means Moscow Suburb goes back to at least the 14th century, in some parts the medieval street network has been preserved. However, the area is first mentioned in 1348 by the name of Last\u0101dija (German: Lastadie).\n\nArchitecturally, the neighborhood reflects its history as an area of Russian, Belarusian and Jewish migration, especially characteristic wooden homes.\n\nDuring the Nazi occupation of Riga, the neighborhood was turned into a ghetto for Jews. Today, there are memorials on the site of the Great Choral Synagogue and the Old Jewish cemetery. Most of the prewar buildings remain standing.\n Question: What's the architecture in Maskavas Forstate look like?", "output": "The architecture of Maskavas For\u0161tate reflects the history of Russian, Belarusian, and Jewish migration."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Dunk Island, known as Coonanglebah in the Warrgamay and Dyirbal languages, is an island within the locality of Dunk in the Cassowary Coast Region, Queensland, Australia. It lies 4 kilometres (2.5 mi) off the Australian east coast, opposite the town of Mission Beach. The island forms part of the Family Islands National Park and is in the larger Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area.\n Question: What is the indigenous name for Dunk Island?", "output": "Dunk Island is known as Coonanglebah in the Warrgamay and Dyirbal languages."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Irina Vysheslavska was born in Kiev on February 20, 1939, into a family of great cultural traditions. Her father Leonid Vysheslavsky was a noted poet and her mother Agnes Baltaga was a writer. Several of her ancestors were priests in Greece, Romania and Ukraine.\n Question: When was Irina Vysheslavska born?", "output": "Irina Vysheslavska was born on February 20, 1939."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Marcus Morton (1784 \u2013 February 6, 1864) was an American lawyer, jurist, and politician from Taunton, Massachusetts. He served two terms as Governor of Massachusetts and several months as Acting Governor following the death in 1825 of William Eustis. He served for 15 years as an associate justice of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, all the while running unsuccessfully as a Democrat for governor. He finally won the 1839 election, acquiring exactly the number of votes required for a majority win over Edward Everett. After losing the 1840 and 1841 elections, he was elected in a narrow victory in 1842.\n\nThe Massachusetts Democratic Party was highly factionalized, which contributed to Morton's long string of defeats. His brief periods of ascendancy, however, resulted in no substantive Democratic-supported reforms, since the dominant Whigs reversed most of the changes enacted during his terms. An opponent of the extension of slavery, he split with longtime friend John C. Calhoun over that issue, and eventually left the party for the Free Soil movement. He was considered by Martin Van Buren as a potential vice presidential running mate in 1848.\n Question: Given a reference text about Marcus Morton, tell me what year he was born and why he let the Democratic Party.", "output": "Marcus Morton was born in 1784. He left the Democratic Party because he opposed the extension of slavery."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tottenham Hotspur Football Club, commonly referred to as Tottenham (/\u02c8t\u0252t\u0259n\u0259m/) or Spurs, is a professional football club based in Tottenham, London, England. It competes in the Premier League, the top flight of English football. The team has played its home matches in the 62,850-capacity Tottenham Hotspur Stadium since April 2019, replacing their former home of White Hart Lane, which had been demolished to make way for the new stadium on the same site.\n\nFounded in 1882, Tottenham's emblem is a cockerel standing upon a football, with the Latin motto Audere est Facere (\"to dare is to do\"). The club has traditionally worn white shirts and navy blue shorts as their home kit since the 1898\u201399 season. Their training ground is on Hotspur Way in Bulls Cross, Enfield. After its inception, Tottenham won the FA Cup for the first time in 1901, the only non-League club to do so since the formation of the Football League in 1888. Tottenham were the first club in the 20th century to achieve the League and FA Cup Double, winning both competitions in the 1960\u201361 season. After successfully defending the FA Cup in 1962, in 1963 they became the first British club to win a UEFA club competition \u2013 the European Cup Winners' Cup. They were also the inaugural winners of the UEFA Cup in 1972, becoming the first British club to win two different major European trophies. They collected at least one major trophy in each of the six decades from the 1950s to 2000s, an achievement only matched by Manchester United.\n Question: Given the reference text about Tottenham Hotspur, what was the name of the stadium that the new stadium replaced?", "output": "The name of the stadium that was replaced by the new stadium is White Hart Lane."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Modern scratching techniques were made possible by the invention of direct-drive turntables, which led to the emergence of turntablism. Early belt-drive turntables were unsuitable for scratching since they had a slow start-up time, and they were prone to wear and tear and breakage, as the belt would break from backspinning or scratching. The first direct-drive turntable was invented by Shuichi Obata, an engineer at Matsushita (now Panasonic), based in Osaka, Japan. It eliminated belts, and instead employed a motor to directly drive a platter on which a vinyl record rests. In 1969, Matsushita released it as the SP-10, the first direct-drive turntable on the market, and the first in their influential Technics series of turntables.\n\nIn the 1970s, hip hop musicians and club DJs began to use this specialized turntable equipment to move the record back and forth, creating percussive sounds and effects\u2013\"scratching\"\u2013to entertain their dance floor audiences. Whereas the 1940s\u20131960s radio DJs had used back-cueing while listening to the sounds through their headphones, without the audience hearing, with scratching, the DJ intentionally lets the audience hear the sounds that are being created by manipulating the record on the turntable, by directing the output from the turntable to a sound reinforcement system so that the audience can hear the sounds. Scratching was developed by early hip hop DJs from New York City such as Grand Wizzard Theodore, who described scratching as, \"nothing but the back-cueing that you hear in your ear before you push it [the recorded sound] out to the crowd.\" He developed the technique when experimenting with the Technics SL-1200, a direct-drive turntable released by Matsushita in 1972 when he found that the motor would continue to spin at the correct RPM even if the DJ wiggled the record back and forth on the platter. Afrika Bambaataa made a similar discovery with the SL-1200 in the 1970s. The Technics SL-1200 went on to become the most widely used turntable for the next several decades.\n\nJamaican-born DJ Kool Herc, who immigrated to New York City, influenced the early development of scratching. Kool Herc developed break-beat DJing, where the breaks of funk songs\u2014being the most danceable part, often featuring percussion\u2014were isolated and repeated for the purpose of all-night dance parties. He was influenced by Jamaican dub music, and developed his turntable techniques using the Technics SL-1100, released in 1971, due to its strong motor, durability, and fidelity.\n\nAlthough previous artists such as writer and poet William S. Burroughs had experimented with the idea of manipulating a reel-to-reel tape manually to make sounds, as with his 1950s recording, \"Sound Piece\"), vinyl scratching as an element of hip hop pioneered the idea of making the sound an integral and rhythmic part of music instead of an uncontrolled noise. Scratching is related to \"scrubbing\" (in terms of audio editing and production) when the reels of an open reel-to-reel tape deck (typically 1/4 inch magnetic audiotape) are gently rotated back and forth while the playback head is live and amplified, to isolate a specific spot on the tape where an editing \"cut\" is to be made. In the 2010s, both scratching and scrubbing can be done on digital audio workstations (DAWs) which are equipped for these techniques.\n\n\nWhere It All Started\n\nDJ Sample of the song \"Where it All Started\"\nProblems playing this file? See media help.\nChristian Marclay was one of the earliest musicians to scratch outside hip hop. In the mid-1970s, Marclay used gramophone records and turntables as musical instruments to create sound collages. He developed his turntable sounds independently of hip hop DJs. Although he is little-known to mainstream audiences, Marclay has been described as \"the most influential turntable figure outside hip hop\" and the \"unwitting inventor of turntablism.\"\n\nIn 1981 Grandmaster Flash released the song \"The Adventures of Grandmaster Flash on the Wheels of Steel\" which is notable for its use of many DJ scratching techniques. It was the first commercial recording produced entirely using turntables. In 1982, Malcolm McLaren & the World's Famous Supreme Team released a single \"Buffalo Gals\", juxtaposing extensive scratching with calls from square dancing, and, in 1983, the EP, D'ya Like Scratchin'?, which is entirely focused on scratching. Another 1983 release to prominently feature scratching is Herbie Hancock's Grammy Award-winning single \"Rockit\". This song was also performed live at the 1984 Grammy Awards, and in the documentary film Scratch, the performance is cited by many 1980s-era DJs as their first exposure to scratching. The Street Sounds Electro compilation series which started in 1983 is also notable for early examples of scratching. Also, a notable piece was \"For A Few Dollars More\" by Bill Laswell-Michael Beinhorn band Material, released on 12\" single in Japan and containing scratch performed by Grand Mixer DXT, another pioneer of scratching.\n Question: Who invented scratching ?", "output": "As Scratching was a common discovery made by the arrival of direct drive turntables, it's hard to tell who was the first person scratching on a turntable, however it's a consensus that GrandMasterFlash and KoolHerc have made the genre popular"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The ANT catalog (or TAO catalog) is a classified product catalog by the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) of which the version written in 2008\u20132009 was published by German news magazine Der Spiegel in December 2013. Forty-nine catalog pages with pictures, diagrams and descriptions of espionage devices and spying software were published. The items are available to the Tailored Access Operations unit and are mostly targeted at products from US companies such as Apple, Cisco and Dell. The source is believed to be someone different than Edward Snowden, who is largely responsible for the global surveillance disclosures since 2013. Companies whose products could be compromised have denied any collaboration with the NSA in developing these capabilities. In 2014, a project was started to implement the capabilities from the ANT catalog as open-source hardware and software.\n\nBackground\nThe Tailored Access Operations unit has existed since the late 90s. Its mission is to collect intelligence on foreign targets of the United States by hacking into computers and telecommunication networks.\n\nIn 2012, Edward Snowden organized a CryptoParty together with Runa Sandvik, a former colleague of Jacob Appelbaum at The Tor Project. In June 2013, Snowden took internal NSA documents which he shared with Glenn Greenwald and Laura Poitras, resulting in the global surveillance disclosures. It has been speculated for years before that capabilities like those in the ANT catalog existed.\n\nPublication\nJacob Appelbaum co-authored the English publication in Der Spiegel with Christian St\u00f6cker  and Judith Horchert, which was publicized on 29 December 2013. The related English publication on the same day about the TAO by Der Spiegel was also authored by the same people, and including Laura Poitras, Marcel Rosenbach, J\u00f6rg Schindler and Holger Stark. On December 30, Appelbaum gave a lecture about \"the militarization of the Internet\" at the 30th Chaos Communication Congress in Hamburg, Germany. At the end of his talk, he encouraged NSA employees to leak more documents.\n\nApple denied the allegations that it collaborated on the development of DROPOUTJEEP in a statement to journalist Arik Hesseldahl from All Things Digital (part of the Wall Street Journal's Digital Network). The Verge questioned how the program developed in later years, since the document was composed in the early period of the iPhone and smartphones in general. Dell denied collaborating with any government in general, including the US government. John Stewart, senior vice president and chief security officer of Cisco stated that they were \"deeply concerned and will continue to pursue all avenues to determine if we need to address any new issues.\" Juniper stated that they were working actively to address any possible exploit paths. Huawei stated they would take appropriate audits to determine if any compromise had taken place and would communicate if that had taken place. NSA declined to comment on the publication by Der Spiegel.\n\nSource\nThe source who leaked the ANT catalog to the press is unknown as of 2023.\n\nAuthor James Bamford, who is specialized in the United States intelligence agencies, noted in a commentary article published by Reuters that Appelbaum has not identified the source who leaked the ANT catalog to him, which led people to mistakenly assume it was Edward Snowden. Bamford got unrestricted access to the documents cache from Edward Snowden and could not find any references to the ANT catalog using automated search tools, thereby concluding that the documents were not leaked by him. Security expert Bruce Schneier has stated on his blog that he also believes the ANT catalog did not come from Snowden, but from a second leaker. Officials at the NSA did not believe that the web crawler used by Snowden touched the ANT catalog and started looking for other people who could have leaked the catalog.\n\nContent\nThe published catalog pages were written between 2008 and 2009. The price of the items ranged from free up to $250,000.\n\nCapabilities in the ANT catalog \nPage\tCode name\tDescription\tUnit price in US$\nNSA CANDYGRAM.jpg\tCANDYGRAM\tTripwire device that emulates a GSM cellphone tower.\t40,000\nNSA COTTONMOUTH-I.jpg\tCOTTONMOUTH-I\tFamily of modified USB and Ethernet connectors that can be used to install Trojan horse software and work as wireless bridges, providing covert remote access to the target machine. COTTONMOUTH-I is a USB plug that uses TRINITY as digital core and HOWLERMONKEY as RF transceiver.\t20,300\nNSA COTTONMOUTH-II.jpg\tCOTTONMOUTH-II\tCan be deployed in a USB socket (rather than plug), and, but requires further integration in the target machine to turn into a deployed system.\t4,000\nNSA COTTONMOUTH-III.jpg\tCOTTONMOUTH-III\tStacked Ethernet and USB plug\t24,960\nNSA CROSSBEAM.jpg\tCROSSBEAM\tGSM communications module capable of collecting and compressing voice data\t4,000\nNSA CTX4000.jpg\tCTX4000\tContinuous wave radar device that can \"illuminate\" a target system for recovery of \"off net\" information.\tN/A\nNSA CYCLONE Hx9.jpg\tCYCLONE-HX9\tGSM Base Station Router as a Network-In-a-Box\t70,000\nNSA DEITYBOUNCE.jpg\tDEITYBOUNCE\tTechnology that installs a backdoor software implant on Dell PowerEdge servers via the motherboard BIOS and RAID controller(s).\t0\nNSA DROPOUTJEEP.jpg\tDROPOUTJEEP\t\"A software implant for the Apple iPhone that utilizes modular mission applications to provide specific SIGINT functionality. This functionality includes the ability to remotely push/pull files from the device. SMS retrieval, contact list retrieval, voicemail, geolocation, hot mic, camera capture, cell tower location, etc. Command, control and data exfiltration can occur over SMS messaging or a GPRS data connection. All communications with the implant will be covert and encrypted.\"\t0\nNSA EBSR.jpg\tEBSR\tTri-band active GSM base station with internal 802.11/GPS/handset capability\t40,000\nNSA ENTOURAGE.jpg\tENTOURAGE\tDirection finding application for GSM, UMTS, CDMA2000 and FRS signals\t70,000\nNSA FEEDTROUGH.jpg\tFEEDTROUGH\tSoftware that can penetrate Juniper Networks firewalls allowing other NSA-deployed software to be installed on mainframe computers.\tN/A\nNSA FIREWALK.jpg\tFIREWALK\tDevice that looks identical to a standard RJ45 socket that allows data to be injected, or monitored and transmitted via radio technology. using the HOWLERMONKEY RF transceiver. It can for instance create a VPN to the target computer.\t10,740\nNSA GENESIS.jpg\tGENESIS\tGSM handset with added software-defined radio features to record the radio frequency spectrum\t15,000\nNSA GODSURGE.jpg\tGODSURGE\tSoftware implant for a JTAG bus device named FLUXBABBITT which is added to Dell PowerEdge servers during interdiction. GODSURGE installs an implant upon system boot-up using the FLUXBABBITT JTAG interface to the Xeon series CPU.\t500\nNSA GINSU.jpg\tGINSU\tTechnology that uses a PCI bus device in a computer, and can reinstall itself upon system boot-up.\t0\nNSA GOPHERSET.jpg\tGOPHERSET\tGSM software that uses a phone's SIM card's API (SIM Toolkit or STK) to control the phone through remotely sent commands.\t0\nNSA GOURMETTROUGH.jpg\tGOURMETTROUGH\tUser-configurable persistence implant for certain Juniper Networks firewalls.\t0\nNSA HALLUXWATER.jpg\tHALLUXWATER\tBack door exploit for Huawei Eudemon firewalls.\tN/A\nNSA HEADWATER.jpg\tHEADWATER\tPersistent backdoor technology that can install spyware using a quantum insert capable of infecting spyware at a packet level on Huawei routers.\tN/A\nNSA HOWLERMONKEY.jpg\tHOWLERMONKEY\tA RF transceiver that makes it possible (in conjunction with digital processors and various implanting methods) to extract data from systems or allow them to be controlled remotely.\t750\nNSA IRATEMONK.jpg\tIRATEMONK\tTechnology that can infiltrate the firmware of hard drives manufactured by Maxtor, Samsung, Seagate, and Western Digital.\t0\nNSA IRONCHEF.jpg\tIRONCHEF\tTechnology that can \"infect\" networks by installing itself in a computer I/O BIOS. IRONCHEF includes also \"Straitbizarre\" and \"Unitedrake\" which have been linked to the spy software REGIN.\t0\nNSA JUNIORMINT.jpg\tJUNIORMINT\tImplant based on an ARM9 core and an FPGA.\tN/A\nNSA JETPLOW.jpg\tJETPLOW\tFirmware that can be implanted to create a permanent backdoor in a Cisco PIX series and ASA firewalls.\t0\nNSA LOUDAUTO.jpg\tLOUDAUTO\tAudio-based RF retro-reflector listening device.\t30\nNSA MAESTRO-II.jpg\tMAESTRO-II\tMulti-chip module approximately the size of a dime that serves as the hardware core of several other products. The module contains a 66 MHz ARM7 processor, 4 MB of flash, 8 MB of RAM, and a FPGA with 500,000 gates. It replaces the previous generation modules which were based on the HC12 microcontroller.\t3,000\nNSA MONKEYCALENDAR.jpg\tMONKEYCALENDAR\tSoftware that transmits a mobile phone's location by hidden text message.\t0\nNSA NEBULA.jpg\tNEBULA\tMulti-protocol network-in-a-box system.\t250,000\nNSA NIGHTSTAND.jpg\tNIGHTSTAND\tPortable system that installs Microsoft Windows exploits from a distance of up to eight miles over a wireless connection.\tN/A\nNSA NIGHTWATCH.jpg\tNIGHTWATCH\tPortable computer used to reconstruct and display video data from VAGRANT signals; used in conjunction with a radar source like the CTX4000 to illuminate the target in order to receive data from it.\tN/A\nNSA PICASSO.jpg\tPICASSO\tSoftware that can collect mobile phone location data, call metadata, access the phone's microphone to eavesdrop on nearby conversations.\t2,000\nNSA PHOTOANGLO.jpg\tPHOTOANGLO\tA joint NSA/GCHQ project to develop a radar system to replace CTX4000.\t40,000\nNSA RAGEMASTER.jpg\tRAGEMASTER\tA concealed device that taps the video signal from a target's computer's VGA signal output so the NSA can see what is on a targeted desktop monitor. It is powered by a remote radar and responds by modulating the VGA red signal (which is also sent out most DVI ports) into the RF signal it re-radiates; this method of transmission is codenamed VAGRANT. RAGEMASTER is usually installed/concealed in the ferrite choke of the target cable. The original documents are dated 2008-07-24. Several receiver/demodulating devices are available, e.g. NIGHTWATCH.\t30\nNSA SCHOOLMONTANA.jpg\tSCHOOLMONTANA\tSoftware that makes DNT implants persistent on JUNOS-based (FreeBSD-variant) J-series routers/firewalls.\tN/A\nNSA SIERRAMONTANA.jpg\tSIERRAMONTANA\tSoftware that makes DNT implants persistent on JUNOS-based M-series routers/firewalls.\tN/A\nNSA STUCCOMONTANA.jpg\tSTUCCOMONTANA\tSoftware that makes DNT implants persistent on JUNOS-based T-series routers/firewalls.\tN/A\nNSA SOMBERKNAVE.jpg\tSOMBERKNAVE\tSoftware that can be implanted on a Windows XP system allowing it to be remotely controlled from NSA headquarters.\t50,000\nNSA SOUFFLETROUGH.jpg\tSOUFFLETROUGH\tBIOS injection software that can compromise Juniper Networks SSG300 and SSG500 series firewalls.\t0\nNSA SPARROW II.jpg\tSPARROW II\tA small computer intended to be used for WLAN collection, including from UAVs. Hardware: IBM Power PC 405GPR processor, 64 MB SDRAM, 16 MB of built-inflash, 4 mini PCI slots, CompactFlash slot, and 802.11 B/G hardware. Running Linux 2.4 and the BLINDDATE software suite. Unit price (2008): $6K.\t6,000\nNSA SURLYSPAWN.jpg\tSURLYSPAWN\tKeystroke monitor technology that can be used on remote computers that are not internet connected.\t30\nNSA SWAP.jpg\tSWAP\tTechnology that can reflash the BIOS of multiprocessor systems that run FreeBSD, Linux, Solaris, or Windows.\t0\nNSA TAWDRYYARD.jpg\tTAWDRYYARD\tRadio frequency retroreflector to provide location information.\t30\nNSA TOTECHASER.jpg\tTOTECHASER\tWindows CE implant for extracting call logs, contact lists and other information.\tN/A\nNSA TOTEGHOSTLY.jpg\tTOTEGHOSTLY\tSoftware that can be implanted on a Windows mobile phone allowing full remote control.\t0\nNSA TRINITY.jpg\tTRINITY\tMulti-chip module using a 180 MHz ARM9 processor, 4 MB of flash, 96 MB of SDRAM, and a FPGA with 1 million gates. Smaller than a penny.\t6,250\nNSA TYPHON HX.jpg\tTYPHON HX\tNetwork-in-a-box for a GSM network with signaling and call control.\tN/A\nNSA WATERWITCH.jpg\tWATERWITCH\tA portable \"finishing tool\" that allows the operator to find the precise location of a nearby mobile phone.\tN/A\nNSA WISTFULTOLL.jpg\tWISTFULTOLL\tPlugin for collecting information from targets using Windows Management Instrumentation\t0\nFollow-up developments\nSecurity expert Matt Suiche noted that the software exploits leaked by the Shadow Brokers could be seen as genuine because it matched with names from the ANT catalog. John Bumgarner has stated to IEEE Spectrum that US government suspicion of Huawei is based on its own ability to add backdoors as shown in the ANT catalog.\n\nNSA Playset\nThe NSA Playset is an open-source project inspired by the NSA ANT catalog to create more accessible and easy to use tools for security researchers. Most of the surveillance tools can be recreated with off-the-shelf or open-source hardware and software. Thus far, the NSA Playset consists of fourteen items, for which the code and instructions can be found online on the project's homepage. After the initial leak, Michael Ossman, the founder of Great Scott Gadgets, gave a shout out to other security researchers to start working on the tools mentioned in the catalog and to recreate them. The name NSA Playset came originally from Dean Pierce, who is also a contributor (TWILIGHTVEGETABLE(GSM)) to the NSA Playset. Anyone is invited to join and contribute their own device. The requisites for an addition to the NSA Playset is a similar or already existing NSA ANT project, ease of use and a silly name (based on the original tool's name if possible). The silly name requisite is a rule that Michael Ossman himself came up with and an example is given on the project's website: \"For example, if your project is similar to FOXACID, maybe you could call it COYOTEMETH.\" The ease of use part stems also from the NSA Playset's motto: \"If a 10 year old can't do it, it doesn't count!\"\n\nName\tDescription\nTWILIGHTVEGETABLE\ta boot image for GSM communication monitoring.\nLEVITICUS\ta hand held GSM frequency analyzer disguised as a Motorola phone; named after GENESIS.\nDRIZZLECHAIR\ta hard drive with all the needed tools to crack A5/1 including the rainbow tables.\nPORCUPINEMASQUERADE\ta passive Wi-Fi reconnaissance drone.\nKEYSWEEPER\ta keylogger in form of a USB wall charger, that wirelessly and passively sniffs, decrypts, logs and reports back (over GSM).\nSLOTSCREAMER\ta PCI hardware implant, which can access memory and IO.\nADAPTERNOODLE\ta USB exploitation device.\nCHUKWAGON\tuses a pin on a computer's VGA port to attack via the I\u00b2C bus accessing the computer's operating system.\nTURNIPSCHOOL\ta hardware implant concealed in a USB cable which provides short range radio frequency communication capability to software running on the host computer.\nBLINKERCOUGH\ta hardware implant that is embedded in a VGA cable which allows data exfiltration.\nSAVIORBURST\ta hardware implant exploiting the JTAG interface for software application persistence; named after GODSURGE. FLUXBABBIT is replaced by SOLDERPEEK.\nCACTUSTUTU\tPortable system that enables wireless installation of Microsoft Windows exploits; covers NIGHTSTAND.\nTINYALAMO\tsoftware that targets BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) and allows keystroke surveillance (keylogger) and injection.\nCONGAFLOCK\tRadio frequency retroreflector intended for experimentation. Intended use would be the implantation into a cable and data exfiltration based on radio reflectivity of the device.(FLAMENCOFLOCK (PS/2), TANGOFLOCK (USB), SALSAFLOCK (VGA) are retroreflectors with specific interfaces to test data exfiltration.)\nSee also\nCyberwarfare in the United States\nEquation Group\nMiniPanzer and MegaPanzer\nStuxnet\nWARRIOR PRIDE\nExplanatory notes\n Whether ANT stands for Advanced Network Technology or Access Network Technology is not known.\n The article from Der Spiegel notes that it is a \"50-page document\" and that \"nearly 50 pages\" are published. The gallery contains 49 pages. Der Spiegel also noted that the document is likely far from complete.\n If the price is listed in bulk, a calculation is made to get the unit price\n For two months\n Including installation costs\n When ordering 25 units, the price per item is US$1000\n Up to 4,000\n Varies from platform to platform\n Data Network Technologies, a division of the Tailored Access Operations\n 100 units for 625,000\n Question: Given this article about the NSA's ANT catalog, Which hacking tools are used to infect the BIOS of computers or networking devices?", "output": "DEITYBOUNCE, IRONCHEF, SOUFFLETROUGH, and SWAP are hacking tools that can be used to infect servers, computers, and networking devices.\nDEITYBOUNCE is technology that installs a backdoor software implant on Dell PowerEdge servers via the motherboard BIOS and RAID controller(s).\nIRONCHEF is technology that can \"infect\" networks by installing itself in a computer I/O BIOS. \nSOUFFLETROUGH is BIOS injection software that can compromise Juniper Networks SSG300 and SSG500 series firewalls.  \nSWAP is technology that can reflash the BIOS of multiprocessor systems that run FreeBSD, Linux, Solaris, or Windows."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Uncas was born near the Thames River in present-day Connecticut, the son of the Mohegan sachem Owaneco. Uncas is a variant of the Mohegan term Wonkus, meaning \"Fox\". He was a descendant of the principal sachems of the Mohegans, Pequots, and Narragansetts. Owaneco presided over the village known as Montonesuck. Uncas was bilingual, learning Mohegan and some English, and possibly some Dutch.\n\nIn 1626, Owaneco arranged for Uncas to marry the daughter of the principal Pequot sachem Tatobem to secure an alliance with them. Owaneco died shortly after this marriage, and Uncas had to submit to Tatobem's authority. Tatobem was captured and killed by the Dutch in 1633; Sassacus became his successor, but Uncas felt that he deserved to be sachem.\n\nOwaneco's alliance with Tatobem was based upon a balance of power between the Mohegans and Pequots. After the death of Owaneco, the balance changed in favour of the Pequots. Uncas was unwilling to challenge the power of Tatobem; however, Uncas did begin contesting Pequot authority over the Mohegans. In 1634 with Narragansett support, Uncas rebelled against Sassacus and Pequot authority. Uncas was defeated and became an exile among the Narragansetts. He soon returned from exile after ritually humiliating himself before Sassacus. His failed challenges resulted in Uncas having little land and few followers, but Uncas saw that the newly arriving Puritan colonists, though few in number, had better weapons and much courage, so he started to develop a new strategy and alliance to work towards his ultimate goal of Grand Sachem.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Chief Uncas, who was he?", "output": "Uncas (c.\u20091588 \u2013 c.\u20091683) was a sachem of the Mohegans who made the Mohegans the leading regional Indian tribe in lower Connecticut, through his alliance with the New England colonists against other Indian tribes."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kenneth McAlpine (11 April 1858 \u2013 10 February 1923) was an English local government representative, a wine merchant and a cricketer who played first-class cricket for Kent and for teams led by Lord Hawke in North America. He was born at Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, and died at Loose, Maidstone, Kent.\n Question: Given the following paragraph about Kenneth McAlpine, where was he born?", "output": "Leamington Spa, Warwickshire"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Luigi Fagioli is the oldest winner of a Formula One Grand Prix; he was 53 years and 22 days old when he won the 1951 French Grand Prix\n Question: Who is the oldest driver to win a Formula 1 race?", "output": "The oldest driver to win a Formula 1 race is the Italian named Luigi Fagioli while 53 years and 22 days old, with his only win at the 1951 France Grand Prix."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Multiomics, multi-omics, integrative omics, \"panomics\" or \"pan-omics\" is a biological analysis approach in which the data sets are multiple \"omes\", such as the genome, proteome, transcriptome, epigenome, metabolome, and microbiome (i.e., a meta-genome and/or meta-transcriptome, depending upon how it is sequenced); in other words, the use of multiple omics technologies to study life in a concerted way. By combining these \"omes\", scientists can analyze complex biological big data to find novel associations between biological entities, pinpoint relevant biomarkers and build elaborate markers of disease and physiology. In doing so, multiomics integrates diverse omics data to find a coherently matching geno-pheno-envirotype relationship or association. The OmicTools service lists more than 99 softwares related to multiomic data analysis, as well as more than 99 databases on the topic.\n\nSystems biology approaches are often based upon the use of panomic analysis data. The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) defines panomics as referring to \"the interaction of all biological functions within a cell and with other body functions, combining data collected by targeted tests ... and global assays (such as genome sequencing) with other patient-specific information.\"\n\nSingle-cell multiomics\nA branch of the field of multiomics is the analysis of multilevel single-cell data, called single-cell multiomics. This approach gives us an unprecedent resolution to look at multilevel transitions in health and disease at the single cell level. An advantage in relation to bulk analysis is to mitigate confounding factors derived from cell to cell variation, allowing the uncovering of heterogeneous tissue architectures.\n\nMethods for parallel single-cell genomic and transcriptomic analysis can be based on simultaneous amplification or physical separation of RNA and genomic DNA. They allow insights that cannot be gathered solely from transcriptomic analysis, as RNA data do not contain non-coding genomic regions and information regarding copy-number variation, for example. An extension of this methodology is the integration of single-cell transcriptomes to single-cell methylomes, combining single-cell bisulfite sequencing to single cell RNA-Seq. Other techniques to query the epigenome, as single-cell ATAC-Seq and single-cell Hi-C also exist.\n\nA different, but related, challenge is the integration of proteomic and transcriptomic data. One approach to perform such measurement is to physically separate single-cell lysates in two, processing half for RNA, and half for proteins. The protein content of lysates can be measured by proximity extension assays (PEA), for example, which use DNA-barcoded antibodies. A different approach uses a combination of heavy-metal RNA probes and protein antibodies to adapt mass cytometry for multiomic analysis.\n\nMultiomics and machine learning\nIn parallel to the advances in highthroughput biology, machine learning applications to biomedical data analysis are flourishing. The integration of multi-omics data analysis and machine learning has led to the discovery of new biomarkers. For example, one of the methods of the mixOmics project implements a method based on sparse Partial Least Squares regression for selection of features (putative biomarkers).\n\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiomics\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Multiomics, what is single-cell multiomics?", "output": "The analysis of multilevel single-cell data. This approach gives us an unprecedent resolution to look at multilevel transitions in health and disease at the single cell level."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The son of Checochinican (Chickoconecon), chief of the Fish Clan of the Turtle tribe, Nemacolin was born near the Brandywine Creek, probably close to the Swedish trading post at Fort Christina that later became Wilmington, Delaware. By a treaty with William Penn in 1726, various tribes either rented or gave up their land on both sides of Brandywine Creek. Nemacolin likely grew up near Shamokin, Pennsylvania, a village near the Susquehanna River to which the Delaware had retreated when faced with disease and colonization of their traditional lands by white settlers. His family grew to know trader Thomas Cresap, and moved south and west with the Cresap family, likely after a controversy between groups of settlers aligned with the colonies of Maryland and Pennsylvania known as Cresap's War.\n\nCirca 1750, Cresap received instructions to improve the Native American path across the Appalachian Mountains through the Cumberland Narrows. He hired Nemacolin and his two sons, among others, to complete the task between Will's Creek (a trading post on a tributary of the Potomac River later the site of Fort Cumberland) and the mouth of Redstone Creek on the Monongahela River (a tributary of the Ohio River) which later became Redstone Old Fort and even later Brownsville, Pennsylvania. A side trail led to the residence of Christopher Gist. Gist led George Washington along Nemacolin's Path in 1753 and 1754. It was later improved to permit supply wagons for General Edward Braddock's army, and the General ultimately died on the route in 1755 after the disastrous Battle of the Monongahela near present day Pittsburgh. About 1759, as the war ended, Nemocolin reblazed the path to the residence of James Burd which became Fort Burd and later renamed Redstone Old Fort. Another branch went to Uniontown, Pennsylvania.\n Question: Given the biography of Nemacolin, what years did George Washington use Nemacolin's Path?", "output": "George Washington was led by Christopher Gist along Nemacolin's Path in 1753 and 1754"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: World War II or the Second World War, often abbreviated as WWII or WW2, was a global conflict that lasted from 1939 to 1945. The vast majority of the world's countries, including all of the great powers, fought as part of two opposing military alliances: the Allies and the Axis. Many participants threw their economic, industrial, and scientific capabilities behind this total war, blurring the distinction between civilian and military resources. Aircraft played a major role, enabling the strategic bombing of population centres and the delivery of the only two nuclear weapons ever used in war.\n Question: When did WWII begin?", "output": "WWII began in 1939 and lasted until 1945."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Antikythera mechanism (/\u02cc\u00e6nt\u026ak\u026a\u02c8\u03b8\u026a\u0259r\u0259/ AN-tih-kih-THEER-\u0259) is an Ancient Greek hand-powered orrery, described as the oldest known example of an analogue computer used to predict astronomical positions and eclipses decades in advance. It could also be used to track the four-year cycle of athletic games which was similar to an Olympiad, the cycle of the ancient Olympic Games.\n Question: What is the first computer recognized in human history?", "output": "The Antikythera mechanism, an astronomical clock, was built around 100 BC and is considered the world's first computer."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Genghis Khan (born Tem\u00fcjin; c. 1162 \u2014 25 August 1227), also known as Chinggis Khan, was the founder and first khagan of the Mongol Empire, which later became the largest contiguous land empire in history. Having spent the majority of his life uniting the Mongol tribes, he launched a series of military campaigns which conquered large parts of China and Central Asia.\n Question: When was Genghis Khan born?", "output": "1162"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: While the XGBoost model often achieves higher accuracy than a single decision tree, it sacrifices the intrinsic interpretability of decision trees.  For example, following the path that a decision tree takes to make its decision is trivial and self-explained, but following the paths of hundreds or thousands of trees is much harder. To achieve both performance and interpretability, some model compression techniques allow transforming an XGBoost into a single \"born-again\" decision tree that approximates the same decision function\n Question: Given this paragraph, what are the potential advantages or disadvantages of using XGBoost versus a single decision tree?", "output": "One advantage of using XGBoost over a single decision tree is that it frequently achieves higher accuracy. One disadvantage is that it sacrifices interpretability because it is much more difficult to follow the path of hundreds or thousands of trees."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz (/\u02c8k\u00e6stro\u028a/; American Spanish: [fi\u02c8\u00f0el ale\u02c8xand\u027eo \u02c8kast\u027eo \u02c8rus]; 13 August 1926 \u2013 25 November 2016) was a Cuban revolutionary and politician who was the leader of Cuba from 1959 to 2008, serving as the prime minister of Cuba from 1959 to 1976 and president from 1976 to 2008. Ideologically a Marxist\u2013Leninist and Cuban nationalist, he also served as the first secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba from 1961 until 2011. Under his administration, Cuba became a one-party communist state; industry and business were nationalized, and socialist reforms were implemented throughout society.\n\nBorn in Bir\u00e1n, the son of a wealthy Spanish farmer, Castro adopted leftist and anti-imperialist ideas while studying law at the University of Havana. After participating in rebellions against right-wing governments in the Dominican Republic and Colombia, he planned the overthrow of Cuban President Fulgencio Batista, launching a failed attack on the Moncada Barracks in 1953. After a year's imprisonment, Castro travelled to Mexico where he formed a revolutionary group, the 26th of July Movement, with his brother Ra\u00fal Castro and Ernesto \"Che\" Guevara. Returning to Cuba, Castro took a key role in the Cuban Revolution by leading the Movement in a guerrilla war against Batista's forces from the Sierra Maestra. After Batista's overthrow in 1959, Castro assumed military and political power as Cuba's prime minister. The United States came to oppose Castro's government and unsuccessfully attempted to remove him by assassination, economic embargo, and counter-revolution, including the Bay of Pigs Invasion of 1961. Countering these threats, Castro aligned with the Soviet Union and allowed the Soviets to place nuclear weapons in Cuba, resulting in the Cuban Missile Crisis \u2013 a defining incident of the Cold War \u2013 in 1962.\n Question: Given the reference text about Fidel Castro, tell me where he was born, where he studied, and when he was the leader of Cuba.", "output": "Fidel Castro was born in Bir\u00e1n and studied law at the University of Havana. He was the leader of Cuba from 1959 to 2008."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ivan Trotski is a Belarusian race walker.\n Question: Where is Ivan Trotski from?", "output": "Belarus"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Mo, also known simply as Mo, was a Dutch pop band best remembered for the 1980s hits \"Fred Astaire\" and \"Cheese.\" The band was known to be an experimental pop band during the new wave era.\n Question: Name a song The Mo is best known for that is not named after a dairy product.", "output": "Fred Astaire"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: He attended Arizona State University on a golf scholarship, where he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Communications. There he won 11 college golf tournaments, which is second in school history, behind only Phil Mickelson's 16 collegiate wins.\n Question: Where did Jon Rahm go to college?", "output": "Arizona State University"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Popsicle is an alternative rock album by indie band Diamond Nights, released in 2005. The song \"The Girl's Attractive\" was featured in a 2006 Jaguar and an Austrian beer (Stiegl) advertisement, as well on the \"Thirst\" and \"Nicodemus\" episodes of the TV drama Smallville, and was included on its second Soundtrack The Metropolis Mix .\n Question: Based on this paragrah, what indie band released the album \"Popsicle\"?", "output": "Diamond Nights"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Coimbatore, also spelt as Koyamputhur[note 1] (Tamil pronunciation: [ko\u02d0jamb\u028at\u032a\u02d0u\u02d0\u027e]), sometimes shortened as Kovai (IPA: [ko\u02d0\u028baj]), is one of the major metropolitan cities in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It is located on the banks of the Noyyal River and surrounded by the Western Ghats. Coimbatore is the second largest city in Tamil Nadu after Chennai in terms of population and the 16th largest urban agglomeration in India as per the census 2011. It is administered by the Coimbatore Municipal Corporation and is the administrative capital of Coimbatore District. In 1981, Coimbatore formed as the third municipal corporation in Tamil Nadu after Chennai and Madurai. Podanur Junction is the oldest railway station in Coimbatore City. The city is one of the largest exporters of jewellery, wet grinders, poultry and auto components; the \"Coimbatore Wet Grinder\" and the \"Kovai Cora Cotton\" are recognised as Geographical Indications by the Government of India. Being a hub of textile industry in South India, the city is sometimes referred to as the \"Manchester of South India\". It was ranked the 7th best city in India in the Ease of Living index 2020.\n Question: Manchester of South India ?", "output": "Coimbatore"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In software engineering, double-checked locking (also known as \"double-checked locking optimization\") is a software design pattern used to reduce the overhead of acquiring a lock by testing the locking criterion (the \"lock hint\") before acquiring the lock. Locking occurs only if the locking criterion check indicates that locking is required.\n\nThe pattern, when implemented in some language/hardware combinations, can be unsafe. At times, it can be considered an anti-pattern.\n\nIt is typically used to reduce locking overhead when implementing \"lazy initialization\" in a multi-threaded environment, especially as part of the Singleton pattern. Lazy initialization avoids initializing a value until the first time it is accessed.\n Question: Is double checked locking safe?", "output": "Double checked locking can be unsafe in some situations and is sometimes considered an anti-pattern. However, it can be implemented in a safe way."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In Naples, he worked in 1572\u20131577 at the church of San Gregorio Armeno together with Giovanni Vincenzo della Monica. He helped design the Bank in Naples, called the second Monte di Piet\u00e0, started in 1539 with goal, according to Sasso, of liberating citizens from the supposed usury of the Jews. By 1597, the building was completed and unified all the banks in the city. In this project, he was aided by Giovanni Giacomo Di Conforto and Giovanni Cola di Franco.\n Question: Given this short summary of Giovan Battista Cavagna, how long did it take to build the second Monte di Pieta?", "output": "It took 58 years.  Started in 1539, completed in 1597."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Human presence in Pre-Columbian Mexico goes back to 8,000 BCE and it went to become one of the world's six cradles of civilization. In particular, the Mesoamerican region was home to many intertwined civilizations, including the Olmec, Maya, Zapotec, Teotihuacan, and Purepecha. Last were the Aztecs, who dominated the region in the century before European contact. In 1521, the Spanish Empire and its indigenous allies conquered the Aztec Empire from its capital Tenochtitlan (now Mexico City), establishing the colony of New Spain.\n Question: How old were the indigenous civilizations in Mexico prior to European contact?", "output": "There were many civilizations that came prior to European contact, some that date back as early as 8,000 BCE. The last civilization to dominate Mexico a century prior to European contact were the Aztecs, whose capital, Tenochtitlan, became what is now Mexico City."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Pareto principle states that for many outcomes, roughly 80% of consequences come from 20% of causes (the \"vital few\"). Other names for this principle are the 80/20 rule, the law of the vital few, or the principle of factor sparsity.\n Question: What is the Pareto principle?", "output": "The Pareto principle also known as the 80/20 rule or the law of the vital few, states that roughly 80% of consequences come from 20% of causes. For example 80% of revenue comes from 20% of customers (the vital few)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Annapurna Post (Nepali: \u0905\u0928\u094d\u0928\u092a\u0941\u0930\u094d\u0923 \u092a\u094b\u0938\u094d\u091f) is a daily broadsheet newspaper published in Nepal. It started printing in 2002 and launched its online news portal in 2013 by Annapurna Media Network, which also owns The Annapurna Express, AP1 TV and Radio Annapurna Nepal. By the 4 April 2014, its online news portal was listed among 10 most visited news portal in Nepal. It also launched its own mobile news app by 2018.\n\nIn the annual newspaper classification report 2073/2074 BS by Press Council Nepal, this newspaper was categorized in the A category, the second highest possible rank below A+.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Annapurna Post, tell me when it launched its online news portal and when it became successful.", "output": "Annapurna Post launched its online news portal in 2013. By April 2014, it became among the 10 most visited news portals in Nepal."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kobe beef (\u795e\u6238\u30d3\u30fc\u30d5, K\u014dbe b\u012bfu) is Wagyu beef from the Tajima strain of Japanese Black cattle, raised in Japan's Hy\u014dgo Prefecture according to rules set out by the Kobe Beef Marketing and Distribution Promotion Association. The meat is a delicacy, valued for its flavor, tenderness, and fatty, well-marbled texture. Kobe beef can be prepared as steak, sukiyaki, shabu-shabu, sashimi, and teppanyaki. Kobe beef is generally considered one of the three top brands[clarification needed] (known as Sandai Wagyu, \"the three big beefs\"), along with Matsusaka beef and \u014cmi beef or Yonezawa beef.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Kobe beef, tell me what type of cattle it is from", "output": "Kobe beef is from Japanese Black cattle."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Avatar: The Last Airbender (abbreviated as ATLA), also known as Avatar: The Legend of Aang in some regions or simply Avatar, is an American animated fantasy action television series created by Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko and produced by Nickelodeon Animation Studio.\n\nAvatar is set in an Asiatic-inspired world in which some people can telekinetically manipulate one of the four elements\u2014water, earth, fire or air\u2014through practices known as \"bending\", inspired by Chinese martial arts. The only individual who can bend all four elements, the \"Avatar\", is responsible for maintaining harmony among the world's four nations, and serves as the link between the physical world and the spirit world. The series is centered around the journey of twelve-year-old Aang, the current Avatar and last survivor of his nation, the Air Nomads, along with his friends Katara, Sokka, and Toph, as they strive to end the Fire Nation's war against the other nations and defeat Fire Lord Ozai before he conquers the world. It also follows the story of Zuko\u2014the exiled prince of the Fire Nation, seeking to restore his lost honor by capturing Aang, accompanied by his uncle Iroh\u2014and later, his sister Azula. Avatar is presented in a style that combines anime with American cartoons and relies on the imagery of primarily Chinese culture, with some other East Asian, Southeast Asian, South Asian, New World, Siberian, and Arctic influences.\n Question: Who is the Avatar? And what was he trying to accomplish?", "output": "In the show Avatar: The Last Airbender, Aang was the current Avatar and the last survivor of his nation, the Air Nomads. He and his friends Katara, Sokka, and Toph, strived to end the Fire Nation's war against the other nations and defeat Fire Lord Ozai before he conquered the world."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC, /\u02c8o\u028ap\u025bk/ OH-pek) is an organization enabling the co-operation of leading oil-producing countries, in order to collectively influence the global market and maximise profit. Founded on 14 September 1960 in Baghdad by the first five members (Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela), it has, since 1965, been headquartered in Vienna, Austria, although Austria is not an OPEC member state. As of September 2018, the 13 member countries accounted for an estimated 44 percent of global oil production and 81.5 percent of the world's proven oil reserves, giving OPEC a major influence on global oil prices that were previously determined by the so-called \"Seven Sisters\" grouping of multinational oil companies.\n\nThe formation of OPEC marked a turning point toward national sovereignty over natural resources, and OPEC decisions have come to play a prominent role in the global oil market and international relations. The effect can be particularly strong when wars or civil disorders lead to extended interruptions in supply. In the 1970s, restrictions in oil production led to a dramatic rise in oil prices and in the revenue and wealth of OPEC, with long-lasting and far-reaching consequences for the global economy. In the 1980s, OPEC began setting production targets for its member nations; generally, when the targets are reduced, oil prices increase. This has occurred most recently from the organization's 2008 and 2016 decisions to trim oversupply.\n\nEconomists have characterized OPEC as a textbook example of a cartel that cooperates to reduce market competition, but one whose consultations are protected by the doctrine of state immunity under international law. In the 1960s and 1970s, OPEC successfully restructured the global oil production system so that decision-making authority and the vast majority of profits is in the hands of oil-producing countries. Since the 1980s, OPEC has had a limited impact on world oil supply and price stability, as there is frequent cheating by members on their commitments to one another, and as member commitments reflect what they would do even in the absence of OPEC.\n\nCurrent OPEC members are Algeria, Angola, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, the Republic of the Congo, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela. Meanwhile, Ecuador, Indonesia and Qatar are former OPEC members. A larger group called OPEC+ was formed in late 2016 to have more control on the global crude oil market.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, when was OPEC founded and how do economists describe OPEC's power over oil markets?", "output": "The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) was founded on September 14, 1960.  Economists describe OPEC as a cartel that limits free market competition by setting production quotas for its members. The impact of OPEC's supply quotas are most acute during times of war or civil disorder when crude oil supplies are already restricted. Cheating by member nations dilutes the power of OPEC over oil supply and prices."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Elahi was born in Jeyhunabad, a small Kurdish village near the eponymous capital of Kermanshah Province. His father, Hajj Nematollah (1871\u20131920), was a mystic and poet who was a leader of the Ahl-e Haqq and revered as a saint. From early childhood, he led an ascetic, secluded life of rigorous discipline under his father's supervision with a special focus on mysticism, music, and ethics. In addition to religious and moral instruction, he received the classical education of the time. During study and contemplation in his youth, he established the basis of his philosophical and spiritual reflections.\n Question: Where was Ostad Elahi born and who was his father", "output": "He was born in Jeyhunabad, a small Kurdish village and his father was Hajj Nematollah, a mystic and poet and a leader of Ahl-e Haqq"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The proposed league would have consisted of two conferences split into four divisions. The current KHL would have made up one of the conferences. The other conference would have been composed of a Scandinavian division and a Central European division. The winners of the two conferences would have played each other for the overall championship.\n Question: Based on this paragraph about the potential Kontinental Hockey League expansion, how many divisions and how many conferences would the proposed league have?", "output": "The league would have two conferences and four divisions."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Paul Ernest Adolph (August 4, 1901 \u2013 17 June 1972) was an American medical missionary born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Paul served the China Inland Mission, now OMF International, from 1929 to 1941 then served in the US Army Medical Corps as a Major from 1941 to 1945. Paul returned to China to serve one last time from 1946 to 1949. After returning to the United States in 1949, he worked preparing missionaries for overseas work and restoring their health after contracting diseases. Once retired, Paul served at his sons' hospitals in central Ethiopia and Bangladesh. Paul opened two hospitals in Luan, Shansi and in Kaifeng, Henan and played a key role in the negotiations with Japanese military that kept hospitals open to Chinese populations during the Sino-Japanese war.\n Question: Did Paul Ernest Adolph ever served the military?", "output": "Yes, Paul Ernest Adolph served in the US Army Medical Corps as a Major from 1941 to 1945."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam BR (/\u02c8\u0251\u02d0bd\u0259l k\u0259\u02c8l\u0251\u02d0m/ (listen); 15 October 1931 \u2013 27 July 2015) was an Indian aerospace scientist and statesman who served as the 11th president of India from 2002 to 2007. He was born and raised in Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu and studied physics and aerospace engineering. He spent the next four decades as a scientist and science administrator, mainly at the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and was intimately involved in India's civilian space programme and military missile development efforts. He thus came to be known as the Missile Man of India for his work on the development of ballistic missile and launch vehicle technology. He also played a pivotal organisational, technical, and political role in India's Pokhran-II nuclear tests in 1998, the first since the original nuclear test by India in 1974.\n\nKalam was elected as the 11th president of India in 2002 with the support of both the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and the then-opposition Indian National Congress. Widely referred to as the \"People's President\", he returned to his civilian life of education, writing and public service after a single term. He was a recipient of several prestigious awards, including the Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian honour.\n Question: Given a reference text about a former President of India, Dr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, tell me when he was born, where he was raised and the subjects he specialised in studies. Why was Abdul Kalam known as the Missile Man of India?", "output": "Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam BR, referred to as APJ Abdul Kalam in short, was born on 15th October 1931. He was born and raised in Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu, South India. APJ Abdul Kalam specialised in Physics and Aerospace Engineering as part of his studies. \nHe had a career of around 4 decades as a scientist as well as an administrator with the organisations such as Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). In these roles, APJ Abdul Kalam played a key role in India's civilian space program and military missile development activities. He also played a vital role in the development of ballistic missile and launch vehicle technology. As a result of his above mentioned contributions, Abdul Kalam was known as the Missile Man of India."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kingdom Hearts is a fantasy action role-playing game franchise created by Japanese game designers Tetsuya Nomura and Shinji Hashimoto, being developed and published by Square Enix (originally by Square). It is a collaboration between Square Enix and The Walt Disney Company and is under the leadership of Nomura, a longtime Square Enix employee.\n Question: Based on this questio about Kingdom Hearts, what company published it?", "output": "Square Enix"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: John Henry Barrett MBE (21 July 1913 \u2013 9 February 1999) was a pioneering conservationist, author and broadcaster, who was the first Warden at Dale Fort Field Centre in Pembrokeshire.\n\nBarrett was born in King's Lynn, Norfolk. He read Economics and Geography at Cambridge University.\n Question: When and where was John Barrett born?", "output": "He was born in 1913 in King's Lynn, Norfolk."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Solitary bees, such as leafcutters, do not form colonies. Unlike social insects (ants, yellow jackets, honeybees), leafcutters work alone building isolated nests. Similar to honeybees, female bees perform nearly all essential tasks of brood rearing. These native insects perform essential tasks, pollinating wild plants. The alfalfa leaf cutter bee (Megachile rotundata), native to Europe, has been semi-domesticated for crop pollination. In North America, the species was deliberately imported to assist in the pollination of food crops, but has now become feral and widespread.\n Question: Are leafcutters solitary or social insects?", "output": "solitary"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Byzantine Empire,[note 1] also referred to as the Eastern Roman Empire or Byzantium, was the continuation of the Roman Empire primarily in its eastern provinces during Late Antiquity and the Middle Ages, when its capital city was Constantinople. It survived the fragmentation and fall of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century AD and continued to exist for an additional thousand years until the fall of Constantinople to the Ottoman Empire in 1453. During most of its existence, the empire remained the most powerful economic, cultural, and military force in Europe. The terms \"Byzantine Empire\" and \"Eastern Roman Empire\" were coined after the end of the realm; its citizens continued to refer to their empire as the Roman Empire and to themselves as Romans[note 2]\u2014a term which Greeks continued to use for themselves into Ottoman times. Although the Roman state continued and its traditions were maintained, modern historians prefer to differentiate the Byzantine Empire from Ancient Rome as it was centered on Constantinople instead of Rome, oriented towards Greek rather than Latin culture, and was characterized by Eastern Orthodox Christianity.\n\nDuring the high period of the Roman Empire known as the Pax Romana, the western parts of the empire went through Latinization, while the eastern parts of the empire maintained to a large degree their Hellenistic culture. Several events from the 4th to 6th centuries mark the period of transition during which the Roman Empire's Greek East and Latin West diverged. Constantine I (r. 324\u2013337) reorganized the empire, made Constantinople the capital, and legalized Christianity. Under Theodosius I (r. 379\u2013395), Christianity became the state religion, and other religious practices were proscribed. In the reign of Heraclius (r. 610\u2013641), the empire's military and administration were restructured, and Greek was gradually adopted for official use in place of Latin.\n\nThe borders of the empire fluctuated through several cycles of decline and recovery. During the reign of Justinian I (r. 527\u2013565), the empire reached its greatest extent after the fall of the west, re-conquering much of the historically Roman western Mediterranean coast, including Africa, Italy and Rome, which it held for two more centuries. The Byzantine\u2013Sasanian War of 602\u2013628 exhausted the empire's resources, and during the early Muslim conquests of the 7th century, it lost its richest provinces, Egypt and Syria, to the Rashidun Caliphate. It then lost Africa to the Umayyads in 698, before the empire was rescued by the Isaurian dynasty.\n\nDuring the Macedonian dynasty (9th\u201311th centuries), the empire expanded again and experienced the two-century-long Macedonian Renaissance, which came to an end with the defeat by Seljuk Turks at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071. Civil wars and the ensuing Seljuk invasion led to the loss of most of Asia Minor. The empire recovered during the Komnenian restoration, and by the 12th century, Constantinople was the largest and wealthiest city in Europe.\n\nThe empire was delivered a mortal blow during the Fourth Crusade when Constantinople was sacked in 1204 and the territories that the empire formerly governed were divided into competing Byzantine Greek and Latin realms. Despite the eventual recovery of Constantinople in 1261, the Byzantine Empire remained only one of several small rival states in the area for the final two centuries of its existence. Its remaining territories were progressively annexed by the Ottomans in the Byzantine\u2013Ottoman wars over the 14th and 15th centuries.\n\nThe fall of Constantinople to the Ottoman Empire in 1453 marked the end of the Byzantine Empire. Refugees fleeing the city after its capture would settle in Italy and other parts of Europe, helping to ignite the Renaissance. The Empire of Trebizond was conquered eight years later when its eponymous capital surrendered to Ottoman forces after it was besieged in 1461. The last Byzantine rump state, the Principality of Theodoro, was conquered by the Ottomans in 1475. Arguments can be made that the fall of the Byzantine Empire to the Ottomans is one of several factors contributing to the end of the Middle Ages and the start of the early modern period.[not verified in body]\n Question: Given this background text about the Byzantine Empire, which empire can the Byzantines trace their origins?", "output": "The Byzantine Empire traces it's origins to the Roman Empire"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The bull shark (Carcharhinus leucas), also known as the Zambezi shark (informally zambi) in Africa and Lake Nicaragua shark in Nicaragua, is a species of requiem shark commonly found worldwide in warm, shallow waters along coasts and in rivers. It is known for its aggressive nature, and presence mainly in warm, shallow brackish and freshwater systems including estuaries and (usually) lower reaches of rivers.\n\nBull sharks are euryhaline and can thrive in both salt and fresh water. They are known to travel far up rivers, and have been known to travel up the Mississippi River as far as Alton, Illinois, about 1,100 kilometres (700 mi) from the ocean, but few freshwater interactions with humans have been recorded. Larger-sized bull sharks are probably responsible for the majority of nearshore shark attacks, including many incidents of shark bites attributed to other species.\n\nUnlike the river sharks of the genus Glyphis, bull sharks are not true freshwater sharks, despite their ability to survive in freshwater habitats.\n Question: Based on this reference text about bull sharks, why can bull sharks live in both salt and fresh water?", "output": "Bull sharks can live in both salt and fresh water because they are euryhaline."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Stanley Franklin Browne, DFC & Bar (29 October 1919 \u2013 13 January 2011) was a New Zealand flying ace of the Royal New Zealand Air Force (RNZAF) during the Second World War. He was officially credited with at least five aerial victories.\n\nBorn in Wellington, Browne was a university student when he joined the RNZAF in March 1941. Once his flight training in New Zealand was completed, he proceeded to the United Kingdom to serve with the Royal Air Force. He was posted to No. 485 Squadron in early 1942 but was shot down later in the year over Germany-occupied France. With the help of the French Resistance he avoided the Germans and made his way to the south of France. He was caught when crossing the border into Vichy France and was interned for several weeks. He escaped captivity and eventually back to the United Kingdom. He was transferred to the Middle East where he ferried aircraft before being posted to No. 93 Squadron. He flew Supermarine Spitfires in the Tunisian campaign and in the Allied invasion of Sicily, shooting down a number of German aircraft before being rested in December 1943. After a spell on instructing duties he returned to operational flying with No. 485 Squadron during the final stages of the war in Europe. He briefly commanded the squadron before it was disbanded in August 1945.\n\nReturning to civilian life after the war, he returned to his university studies, becoming a chemist. He briefly served in the New Zealand Territorial Air Force and later became a farmer and then a teacher. He died in 2011, aged 91, at Tauranga.\n Question: Given a reference text about Stanley Franklin Browne, how many aerial victories during World War II did he have and what did he do when he returned from the war.", "output": "Stanley Franklin Browne was credited with five aerial victories during World War II. After the war, he returned to university and became a chemist."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Couture has competed in a record 16 title fights. He is tied for the record for the most wins in UFC Heavyweight Championship bouts (6) with former UFC Heavyweight champion Stipe Miocic. He had the most title reigns in the UFC, with six. His last fight with Lyoto Machida marked his 24th fight in the UFC. He is the fourth member of the UFC Hall of Fame. He is one of only 2 over the age of 40 to have won a UFC championship fight, having done so four times. He is one of the few MMA champions to regain a title he had lost, and the only to have done it three times (twice at heavyweight, once at light heavyweight).\n Question: Randy Couture was one of how many fighters over the age of 40 to have won a UFC championship?", "output": "Randy Couture was one of two fighters over the age of 40 that won a UFC championship fight."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Natural hydrogen (known as white hydrogen), is naturally occurring molecular hydrogen on or in Earth (as opposed to hydrogen produced in the laboratory or in industry). The name white hydrogen distinguishes it from green hydrogen, which is produced from renewable energy sources, and from grey, brown or black hydrogen, which is obtained from fossil sources or from the electrolysis of water. Natural hydrogen may be renewable, non-polluting and allows for lower cost operation compared to industrial hydrogen. Natural hydrogen has been identified in many source rocks in areas beyond the sedimentary basins where oil companies typically operate.\n\nOrigin of natural hydrogen\nThere are several sources of natural hydrogen:\n\n- degassing of deep hydrogen from the Earth's crust and mantle;\n- reaction of water with ultrabasic rocks (serpentinisation);\n- contact of water with reducing agents in the Earth's mantle;\n- interaction of water with freshly exposed rock surfaces (weathering);\n- decomposition of hydroxyl ions in the structure of minerals;\n- Natural radiolysis of water;\n- decomposition of organic matter;\n- biological activity\n- Extraction\n- Natural hydrogen is extracted from wells, mixed with other gases such as nitrogen or helium.\n\nSeveral sources have been identified in France. Geologists Alain Prinzhofer and Eric Derville have demonstrated the existence of large reservoirs in a dozen countries, including Mali and the United States. However, their potential remains difficult to assess.\n\nNumerous emanations on the ocean floor have been identified but are difficult to exploit. The discovery of a significant emergence in Russia in 2008 suggests the possibility of extracting native hydrogen in geological environments.\n\nGeology\nNatural hydrogen is generated continuously from a variety of natural sources. There are many known hydrogen emergences on mid-ocean ridges. Another of the known reactions, serpentinisation, occurs under the sea floor (in the oceanic crust).\n\nDiagenetic origin (iron oxidation) in the sedimentary basins of cratons, notably in Russia. Other sources are being explored, such as mantle hydrogen, or hydrogen from radiolysis (natural electrolysis) or from bacterial activity. In France, the Alps and Pyrenees are suitable for exploitation. New Caledonia has hyperalkaline sources that show dihydrogen emissions. A large accumulation of natural hydrogen was discovered in Bourakebougou (Mali).\n\nCharacteristics\nDihydrogen is very soluble in fresh water, especially at depth (solubility increases with pressure).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_hydrogen\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Natural hydrogen, what are some of its sources?", "output": "degassing of deep hydrogen from the Earth's crust and mantle; reaction of water with ultrabasic rocks (serpentinisation); contact of water with reducing agents in the Earth's mantle; interaction of water with freshly exposed rock surfaces (weathering); decomposition of hydroxyl ions in the structure of minerals; Natural radiolysis of water; decomposition of organic matter; biological activity; Extraction; Natural hydrogen is extracted from wells, mixed with other gases such as nitrogen or helium."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Japan Rail Pass, also called the JR Pass, is a rail pass for overseas visitors sold by the Japan Railways Group, and is valid for travel on all major forms of transportation provided by the JR Group in Japan, with a few exceptions. The Rail Pass is designed to stimulate travel and tourism throughout the country. It is only cost effective for long-distance travel, particularly by bullet train. While the savings from extensive travel can be considerable, those who travel too little may in fact lose money on a rail pass. The Japan Rail Pass is of limited use within larger cities, as private operators generally do not accept the Rail Pass. In Tokyo, for instance, it covers the Yamanote Line which goes to several popular tourist areas, as well as in Osaka on the Osaka Loop Line, plus in Kyoto on the Nara Line and Sagano Line.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Japan Rail Pass, tell me whether it is available for purchase to Japanese citizens.", "output": "No, the JR Pass is only intended for purchase by overseas visitors to Japan."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: West Ham United Football Club is an English professional football club that plays its home matches in Stratford, East London. The club competes in the Premier League, the top tier of English football. The club plays at the London Stadium, having moved from their former home, the Boleyn Ground, in 2016. The club was founded in 1895 as Thames Ironworks and reformed in 1900 as West Ham United. They moved to the Boleyn Ground in 1904, which remained their home ground for more than a century. The team initially competed in the Southern League and Western League before joining the Football League in 1919. They were promoted to the top flight in 1923, when they were also losing finalists in the first FA Cup Final held at Wembley. In 1940, the club won the inaugural Football League War Cup.\n Question: When was West Ham started and when did they get the name West Ham United?", "output": "West Ham started in 1895 as Thames Ironworks and became West Ham United in 1900."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Independence Mall (formerly Westfield Shoppingtown Independence or Westfield Independence) is the only enclosed shopping mall in Wilmington, North Carolina. It opened in 1979 with anchor stores Belk-Beery (now Belk), JCPenney, and Sears. A later expansion added a new wing and Dillard's store to the center after Westfield Group purchased the mall. The mall is located on Oleander Drive (U.S. 76) and Independence Blvd east of downtown Wilmington. The mall has a food court and no longer features a carousel.\n Question: Where is Independence mall?", "output": "Independence mall is located in Wilmington, North Carolina."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: On September 26, 2019, Peloton became a public company via an initial public offering, raising $1.16 billion and valuing the company at $8.1 billion. After reaching a market valuation of $50 billion in January 2021, the company's valuation was back to around $8 billion by April 2022.\n Question: When did Peloton IPO?", "output": "Peloton became a public company via an initial public offering on September 26, 2019."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Many causes of autism have been proposed, but understanding of the theory of causation of autism, or otherwise known as autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is incomplete. Attempts have been made to incorporate the known genetic and environmental causes into a comprehensive causative framework.ASD is a complex developmental condition marked by persistent challenges to social interaction, speech and nonverbal communication, and restricted/repetitive behaviors and its phenotypes vary significantly.\n\n\nResearch indicates that genetic factors predominate. The heritability of autism, however, is complex, and it is typically unclear which genes are involved.In rare cases, autism is associated with agents that cause birth defects.Many other causes have been proposed.\nNumerous epidemiological studies have shown no scientific evidence supporting the controversial but popular theory that autism is caused by vaccines.\n Question: What are the causes of Autism?", "output": "There is no clear cause for Autism which has been scientifically proven. However, some research indicates that genetic factors are one of the predominant causes. In rare cases, autism is associated with agents that cause congenital disabilities, and many other causes have been proposed.\nNumerous epidemiological studies have shown no scientific evidence supporting the controversial but popular theory that vaccines cause autism."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Dog Day Afternoon is a 1975 American biographical crime drama film directed by Sidney Lumet and produced by Martin Bregman and Martin Elfand. The film stars Al Pacino, John Cazale, James Broderick, and Charles Durning. The screenplay is written by Frank Pierson and is based on the Life magazine article \"The Boys in the Bank\" by P. F. Kluge and Thomas Moore. The feature chronicled the 1972 robbery and hostage situation led by John Wojtowicz and Salvatore Naturile at a Chase Manhattan branch in Brooklyn.\n Question: What's the origin of Dog Day Afternoon?", "output": "This is a real incident that happened in NY in the mid-70s.  It's about this man (played by Al Pacino) who's married to a woman.  But then he also fell in love with a man.  His partner said he's trapped in the wrong body. So, Al Pacino decided to rob a bank to get money for his partner's sex change."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Trains are up to sixteen cars long. With each car measuring 25 m (82 ft) in length, the longest trains are 400 m (1\u20444 mile) end to end. Stations are similarly long to accommodate these trains. Some of Japan's high-speed maglev trains are considered Shinkansen, while other slower maglev trains (such as the Linimo maglev train line serving local community near the city of Nagoya in Aichi, Japan) are intended as alternatives to conventional urban rapid transit systems.\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shinkansen\n Question: Based on this paragraph on Japanese bullet trains, how many cars do the longest trains have?", "output": "Based on this paragraph, the longest Japanese bullets trains have 16 cars, which is determined by dividing the length of the longes trains (400m) by the length of each car (25m)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Optimus, also known as Tesla Bot, is a conceptual general-purpose robotic humanoid under development by Tesla, Inc. It was announced at the company's Artificial Intelligence (AI) Day event on August 19, 2021. CEO Elon Musk claimed during the event that Tesla would likely build a prototype by 2022. Musk is on record having said that he thinks Optimus \"has the potential to be more significant than the vehicle business over time.\"\n\nTesla Bot is planned to measure 5 ft 8 in (173 cm) tall and weigh 125 lb (57 kg). According to the presentation made during the first AI Day event, a Tesla Bot will be \"controlled by the same AI system Tesla is developing for the advanced driver-assistance system used in its cars\" and have a carrying capacity of 45 lb (20 kg). Proposed tasks for the product are ones that are \"dangerous, repetitive and boring\", such as providing manufacturing assistance.\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optimus_(robot)\n Question: Given these paragraphs about the Tesla bot, what is its expected height and weight?", "output": "Tesla Bot is planned to measure 5 ft 8 in (173 cm) tall and weigh 125 lb (57 kg)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Joshua Braff (born October 11, 1967) is an American writer.\n\nBraff's first novel, The Unthinkable Thoughts of Jacob Green, described as a Jewish coming of age tale, was published in 2004 by Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill. The Unthinkable Thoughts of Jacob Green was an ALA Notable Book, named to Booklist's Top 10 1st Novels List, and chosen for the Barnes & Noble Discover Great New Writers program. His second novel Peep Show was published by Algonquin in 2010. In a four-star review of Peep Show, People said, \u201cBraff skillfully illuminates the failures and charms of a broken family. That teen longing for adults to act their age haunts long after the final page.\u201d\n Question: Do you know anything about the writer Joshua Braff", "output": "Joshua Braff (born October 11, 1967) is an American writer. Braff's first novel, The Unthinkable Thoughts of Jacob Green, described as a Jewish coming of age tale, was published in 2004 by Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill.\n\nThe Unthinkable Thoughts of Jacob Green was an ALA Notable Book, named to Booklist's Top 10 1st Novels List, and chosen for the Barnes & Noble Discover Great New Writers program. His second novel Peep Show was published by Algonquin in 2010. \n\nIn a four-star review of Peep Show, People said, \u201cBraff skillfully illuminates the failures and charms of a broken family. That teen longing for adults to act their age haunts long after the final page.\u201d"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Indiana Jones is an American media franchise based on the adventures of Dr. Henry Walton \"Indiana\" Jones, Jr., a fictional professor of archaeology, that began in 1981 with the film Raiders of the Lost Ark. In 1984, a prequel, The Temple of Doom, was released, and in 1989, a sequel, The Last Crusade. A fourth film followed in 2008, titled The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull. A fifth and final film, titled The Dial of Destiny, is in production and is scheduled to be released in 2023. The series was created by George Lucas and stars Harrison Ford as Indiana Jones. The first four films were directed by Steven Spielberg, who worked closely with Lucas during their production.\n\nIn 1992, the franchise expanded to a television series with The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles, portraying the character in his childhood and youth, and including adventures with his parents.\n\nMarvel Comics began publishing The Further Adventures of Indiana Jones in 1983, and Dark Horse Comics gained the comic book rights to the character in 1991. Novelizations of the films have been published, as well as many novels with original adventures, including a series of German novels by Wolfgang Hohlbein, twelve novels set before the films published by Bantam Books, and a series set during the character's childhood inspired by the television show.\n\nNumerous Indiana Jones video games have been released since 1982.\n\nBackground\nDuring 1973, George Lucas wrote The Adventures of Indiana Smith. Like Star Wars, it was an opportunity to create a modern version of the movie serials of the 1930s and 1940s. Lucas discussed the concept with Philip Kaufman, who worked with him for several weeks and decided upon the Ark of the Covenant as the MacGuffin. The project was stalled when Clint Eastwood hired Kaufman to write The Outlaw Josey Wales. In May 1977, Lucas was in Maui, trying to escape the worldwide success of Star Wars. His friend and colleague Steven Spielberg was also there, on vacation from work on Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Spielberg told Lucas he was interested in making a James Bond film, but Lucas told him of an idea \"better than James Bond\", outlining the plot of Raiders of the Lost Ark. Spielberg loved it, calling it \"a James Bond film without the hardware\", and had the character's surname changed to Jones. Spielberg and Lucas made a deal with Paramount Pictures for five Indiana Jones films.\n\nSpielberg and Lucas aimed to make Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom much darker, because of their personal moods following their respective breakups and divorces. Lucas made the film a prequel as he did not want the Nazis to be the villains again. He had ideas regarding the Monkey King and a haunted castle, but eventually created the Sankara Stones, that would be used in the film. He hired Willard Huyck and Gloria Katz to write the script as he knew of their interest in Indian culture. The major scenes that were dropped from Raiders of the Lost Ark were included in this film: an escape using a giant rolling gong as a shield, a fall out of a plane in a raft, and a mine cart chase. For the third film, Spielberg revisited the Monkey King and haunted castle concepts, before Lucas suggested the Holy Grail. Spielberg had previously rejected this as too ethereal, but then devised a father-son story and decided that \"The Grail that everybody seeks could be a metaphor for a son seeking reconciliation with a father and a father seeking reconciliation with a son.\"\n\nFollowing the 1989 release of Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, Lucas let the series end as he felt he could not think of a good plot device to drive the next installment and chose instead to produce The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles, which explored the character in his early years. Ford played Indiana in one episode, narrating his adventures in 1920 Chicago. When Lucas shot Ford's role in December 1992, he realized that the scene opened up the possibility of a film with an older Indiana set in the 1950s. The film could reflect a science fiction 1950s B-movie, with aliens as the plot device. Ford disliked the new angle, telling Lucas: \"No way am I being in a Steven Spielberg movie like that.\" Spielberg himself, who depicted aliens in Close Encounters of the Third Kind and E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, resisted it. Lucas devised a story, which Jeb Stuart turned into a script from October 1993 to May 1994. Lucas wanted Indiana to get married, which would allow Henry Jones Sr. to return, expressing concern over whether his son is happy with what he has accomplished. After learning that Joseph Stalin was interested in psychic warfare, Lucas decided to have Russians as the villains and the aliens to have psychic powers. Following Stuart's next draft, Lucas hired Last Crusade writer Jeffrey Boam to write the next three versions, the last of which was completed in March 1996. Three months later, Independence Day was released, and Spielberg told Lucas he would not make another alien invasion film (or at least not until War of the Worlds in 2005). Lucas decided to focus on the Star Wars prequels instead.\n\nIn 2000, Spielberg's son asked when the next Indiana Jones film would be released, which made him interested in reviving the project. The same year, Ford, Lucas, Spielberg, Frank Marshall, and Kathleen Kennedy met during the American Film Institute's tribute to Ford, and decided they wanted to enjoy the experience of making an Indiana Jones film again. Spielberg also found returning to the series a respite from his many dark films during this period. Spielberg and Lucas discussed the central idea of a B-movie involving aliens, and Lucas suggested using crystal skulls to ground the idea. Lucas found these artifacts as fascinating as the Ark, and had intended to feature them for a Young Indiana Jones episode before the show's cancellation. M. Night Shyamalan was hired to write for an intended 2002 shoot, but he was overwhelmed by the task, and claimed it was difficult to get Ford, Spielberg, and Lucas to focus. Stephen Gaghan and Tom Stoppard were also approached.\n\nFrank Darabont, who wrote various Young Indiana Jones episodes, was hired to write in May 2002. His script, titled Indiana Jones and the City of Gods, was set in the 1950s, with ex-Nazis pursuing Jones. Spielberg conceived the idea because of real-life figures such as Juan Per\u00f3n in Argentina, who allegedly protected Nazi war criminals. Darabont claimed Spielberg loved the script, but Lucas had issues with it, and decided to take over writing himself. Lucas and Spielberg acknowledged that the 1950s setting could not ignore the Cold War, and the Russians were more plausible villains. Spielberg decided he could not satirize the Nazis after directing Schindler's List, while Ford felt \"We plum wore the Nazis out.\" Darabont's main contribution was reintroducing Marion Ravenwood as Indiana's love interest, but he gave them a 13-year-old daughter, which Spielberg decided was too similar to The Lost World: Jurassic Park.\n\nJeff Nathanson met with Spielberg and Lucas in August 2004, and turned in the next drafts in October and November 2005, titled The Atomic Ants. David Koepp continued on from there, giving his script the subtitle Destroyer of Worlds, based on the J. Robert Oppenheimer quote. It was changed to Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, as Spielberg found this a more inviting title which actually named the plot device. Koepp wanted to depict the character of Mutt as a nerd, but Lucas refused, explaining he had to resemble Marlon Brando in The Wild One; \"he needs to be what Indiana Jones's father thought of  \u2013 the curse returns in the form of his own son \u2013 he's everything a father can't stand\". Koepp collaborated with Lawrence Kasdan on the film's \"love dialogue\".\n\nThe Walt Disney Company has owned the Indiana Jones intellectual property since its acquisition of Lucasfilm, the series' production company, in 2012, when Lucas sold it for $4 billion. Walt Disney Studios owns the distribution and marketing rights to future Indiana Jones films since 2013, with Paramount retaining the distribution rights to the first four films and receiving \"financial participation\" from any additional films. Disney will distribute the fifth film Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny, which will be directed by James Mangold and produced by Spielberg.\n\nRaiders of the Lost Ark (1981)\nMain article: Raiders of the Lost Ark\nThe first film is set in 1936. Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) is hired by government agents to locate the Ark of the Covenant, the gold plated chest containing the stone tablets Moses used to inscribe the Ten Commandments before the Nazi Germans steal it for themselves. The Nazis have teams searching for religious artefacts, including the Ark, which is rumored to make an army that carries the Ark before it invincible. The Nazis are being helped by Indiana's arch-rival and French archaeologist Ren\u00e9 Belloq (Paul Freeman). With the help of his former lover and tough bar owner Marion Ravenwood (Karen Allen) and his excavator friend Sallah (John Rhys-Davies), Indiana manages to recover the Ark in Egypt. The Nazis steal the Ark and capture Indiana and Marion. Belloq and the Nazis perform a ceremony to open the Ark, but when they do so, all they find inside is sand. Suddenly, spirits come out of the Ark and the Nazis are all killed by the Ark's wrath. Indiana and Marion, who survived by closing their eyes, manage to get the Ark to the United States, where it is stored in a secret government warehouse.\n\nIndiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (1984)\nMain article: Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom\nThe second film is a prequel set in 1935, a year before Raiders of the Lost Ark. Indiana escapes Chinese gangsters led by Lao Che with the help of singer/actress Willie Scott (Kate Capshaw) and his twelve-year-old sidekick Short Round (Ke Huy Quan). The trio crash-land in India, where they come across a Punjabi village whose children have been kidnapped. The Thuggee cult led by Mola Ram (Amrish Puri) has also taken the holy Sankara Stones, which they will use to take over the world. Indiana manages to overcome Mola Ram's evil power, rescues the children and returns the stones to their rightful place, overcoming his own mercenary nature. The film has been noted as an outlier in the franchise, as it does not feature Indy's university or any antagonistic political entity, and is less focused on archaeology, being presented as a dark movie with gross-out elements, human sacrifice and torture.\n\nIndiana Jones and the Last Crusade (1989)\nMain article: Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade\nThe third film is set in 1938. Indiana and his friend Marcus Brody (Denholm Elliott) are assigned by American businessman Walter Donovan (Julian Glover) to find the Holy Grail. They are teamed up with Dr. Elsa Schneider (Alison Doody), following on from where Indiana's estranged father Henry (Sean Connery) left off before he disappeared. It transpires that Donovan and Elsa are in league with the Nazis, who captured Henry Jones in order to get Indiana to help them find the Grail. However, Indiana recovers his father's diary filled with his research, and manages to rescue him before finding the location of the Grail. Both Donovan and Elsa fall to the temptation of the Grail, while Indiana and Henry realize that their relationship with each other is more important than finding the relic.\n\nIndiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (2008)\nMain article: Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull\nThe fourth film is set in 1957, nineteen years after The Last Crusade. Indiana is having a quiet life teaching before being thrust into a new adventure. He races against agents of the Soviet Union, led by Irina Spalko (Cate Blanchett) for a crystal skull. His journey takes him across Nevada, Connecticut, Peru, and the Amazon rainforest in Brazil. Indiana is faced with betrayal by one of his best friends, Mac (Ray Winstone), is introduced to a greaser named Mutt Williams (Shia LaBeouf), who turns out to be his son (his real name revealed to be Henry Jones III), and is reunited with, and eventually marries, Marion Ravenwood, who was the lead female character introduced in the first movie.\n\nIndiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny (2023)\nMain article: Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny\nA fifth film, set in 1969, is scheduled for release on June 30, 2023. The film is being directed by James Mangold, who wrote the script with Jez and John-Henry Butterworth. Spielberg was initially set to direct the film, before passing it to Mangold. Spielberg instead serves as a producer, along with Kennedy and Marshall. Ford reprises the title role, and new cast members include Phoebe Waller-Bridge, Mads Mikkelsen, Thomas Kretschmann, Boyd Holbrook, Shaunette Ren\u00e9e Wilson, Toby Jones and Antonio Banderas. Development of the film began in 2008, but the project stalled for years. Filming eventually began in the United Kingdom in June 2021 and wrapped in February 2022.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Indiana Jones, tell me who starred in the franchise films with Harrison Ford", "output": "The American media franchise, Indiana Jones, includes five film releases.  The first film release, Raiders of the  Last Ark included co-stars Paul Freeman, as Rene Bellow, Karen Allen, as Marion Ravenwood, and John Rhys-Davies, as Sallah.  The second film release, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom included co-stars Kate Capshaw, as Willie Scott, Ke Huy Quan as Short Round, and Amris Puri, as Mola Ram.  The third film release, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade included co-stars Denholm Elliott as Marcus Brody, Julian Glover as Walter Donovan, Alison Doody as Dr. Elsa Schneider, and Sean Connery as Henry Jones.  The fourth film release, Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull included co-stars Cate Blanchett as Irina Spalko, Ray Winstone as Mac and Shia LaBeouf as Mutt Williams.  The fifth and final film release, Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny, is scheduled to be released in June 30, 2023 and currently includes co-stars include Phoebe Waller-Bridge, Mads Mikkelsen, Thomas Kretschmann, Boyd Holbrook, Shaunette Ren\u00e9e Wilson, Toby Jones and Antonio Banderas."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A drill jig is a type of jig that expedites repetitive hole center location on multiple interchangeable parts by acting as a template to guide the twist drill or other boring device into the precise location of each intended hole center. In metalworking practice, typically a hardened drill bushing lines each hole on the jig plate to keep the tool from damaging the jig.\n\nDrill jigs started falling into disuse with the invention of the jig borer.\n\nSince the widespread penetration of the manufacturing industry by CNC machine tools, in which servo controls are capable of moving the tool to the correct location automatically, the need for drill jigs (and for the jobs of the drill press operators who used them) is much less than it used to be.\n Question: Why are drill jigs less commonly used today than they were in the past?", "output": "Because of CNC machine tooling, which automate much of the drilling process"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The giant panda is a bear species endemic to China. It is a Carnivora, the giant panda is a folivore, with bamboo shoots and leaves making up more than 99% of its diet.\n Question: What do giant Pandas eats?", "output": "the giant panda is a folivore, with bamboo shoots and leaves making up more than 99% of its diet."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Banksia is a genus of around 170 species in the plant family Proteaceae. These Australian wildflowers and popular garden plants are easily recognised by their characteristic flower spikes, and fruiting \"cones\" and heads. Banksias range in size from prostrate woody shrubs to trees up to 30 metres (100 ft) tall. They are found in a wide variety of landscapes: sclerophyll forest, (occasionally) rainforest, shrubland, and some more arid landscapes, though not in Australia's deserts.\n Question: Given the reference text about the genus Banksia, tell me how many species of Banksia there are and what size they can grow to.", "output": "There are around 170 species of Banksia. Banksias range in size from prostrate woody shrubs to trees up to 30 metres (100 ft) tall."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Natural hydrogen (known as white hydrogen), is naturally occurring molecular hydrogen on or in Earth (as opposed to hydrogen produced in the laboratory or in industry). The name white hydrogen distinguishes it from green hydrogen, which is produced from renewable energy sources, and from grey, brown or black hydrogen, which is obtained from fossil sources or from the electrolysis of water. Natural hydrogen may be renewable, non-polluting and allows for lower cost operation compared to industrial hydrogen. Natural hydrogen has been identified in many source rocks in areas beyond the sedimentary basins where oil companies typically operate.\n\nOrigin of natural hydrogen\nThere are several sources of natural hydrogen:\n\n- degassing of deep hydrogen from the Earth's crust and mantle;\n- reaction of water with ultrabasic rocks (serpentinisation);\n- contact of water with reducing agents in the Earth's mantle;\n- interaction of water with freshly exposed rock surfaces (weathering);\n- decomposition of hydroxyl ions in the structure of minerals;\n- Natural radiolysis of water;\n- decomposition of organic matter;\n- biological activity\n- Extraction\n- Natural hydrogen is extracted from wells, mixed with other gases such as nitrogen or helium.\n\nSeveral sources have been identified in France. Geologists Alain Prinzhofer and Eric Derville have demonstrated the existence of large reservoirs in a dozen countries, including Mali and the United States. However, their potential remains difficult to assess.\n\nNumerous emanations on the ocean floor have been identified but are difficult to exploit. The discovery of a significant emergence in Russia in 2008 suggests the possibility of extracting native hydrogen in geological environments.\n\nGeology\nNatural hydrogen is generated continuously from a variety of natural sources. There are many known hydrogen emergences on mid-ocean ridges. Another of the known reactions, serpentinisation, occurs under the sea floor (in the oceanic crust).\n\nDiagenetic origin (iron oxidation) in the sedimentary basins of cratons, notably in Russia. Other sources are being explored, such as mantle hydrogen, or hydrogen from radiolysis (natural electrolysis) or from bacterial activity. In France, the Alps and Pyrenees are suitable for exploitation. New Caledonia has hyperalkaline sources that show dihydrogen emissions. A large accumulation of natural hydrogen was discovered in Bourakebougou (Mali).\n\nCharacteristics\nDihydrogen is very soluble in fresh water, especially at depth (solubility increases with pressure).\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_hydrogen\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Natural hydrogen, can you name some of the countries where sources have been identified?", "output": "Several sources have been identified in France. Geologists Alain Prinzhofer and Eric Derville have demonstrated the existence of large reservoirs in a dozen countries, including Mali and the United States. However, their potential remains difficult to assess."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Aetolia is a mountainous region of Greece on the north coast of the Gulf of Corinth, forming the eastern part of the modern regional unit of Aetolia-Acarnania.\n Question: Is Aetolia at sea level?", "output": "Aetolia is a mountainous region of Greece, so probably not."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A lithophane is a thin plaque of translucent material, normally porcelain, which has been moulded to varying thickness, such that when lit from behind the different thicknesses show as different shades, forming an image. Only when lit from behind does the image display properly. They were invented in the 19th century and became very popular, typically for lampshades, nightlights, or to be hung on windows. They could also be given stands, to be placed in front of a light source. The longest side of a lithophane is typically between 6 and 10 inches.\n Question: Given this paragraph about material, what is lithophane?", "output": "A lithophane is a thin plaque of translucent material, normally porcelain, which has been moulded to varying thickness, such that when lit from behind the different thicknesses show as different shades, forming an image."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Roger Federer (born 8 August 1981) is a Swiss former professional tennis player. He was ranked world No. 1 by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) for 310 weeks, including a record 237 consecutive weeks, and finished as the year-end No. 1 five times. He won 103 singles titles on the ATP Tour, the second most of all time, including 20 major men's singles titles, a record eight men's singles Wimbledon titles, an Open Era joint-record five men's singles US Open titles, and a joint-record six year-end championships. In his home country, he is regarded as \"the greatest and most successful\" Swiss sportsperson in history.\n Question: Who is Roger Federer?", "output": "Roger Federer is a Swiss former professional tennis player. He has won 20 major's singles title, totally 103 singles titles on the ATP tour. He was ranked world No.1 for 310 weeks, and was considered as the great of all time by many people."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Wheel of Time is a series of high fantasy novels by American author Robert Jordan, with Brandon Sanderson as a co-author for the final three novels. Originally planned as a six-book series at its debut in 1990, The Wheel of Time came to span 14 volumes, in addition to a prequel novel and two companion books. Jordan died in 2007 while working on what was planned to be the final volume in the series. He prepared extensive notes which enabled fellow fantasy author Brandon Sanderson to complete the final book, which grew into three volumes: The Gathering Storm (2009), Towers of Midnight (2010), and A Memory of Light (2013).\n Question: How many volumes of Wheel of Time are there?", "output": "Originally planned as a six-book series at its debut in 1990, The Wheel of Time came to span 14 volumes"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Gosberton Clough is a village in the civil parish of Gosberton and the South Holland district of Lincolnshire, England. It is 30 miles (50 km) south-east from the city and county town of Lincoln, 5 miles (8 km) north from the nearest large town of Spalding, and 3 miles (5 km) west-southwest from parish village of Gosberton.\n\nGosberton Clough and the village Risegate to the east are conjoined as a 2 miles (3 km) linear settlement on the east to west B1397 road which runs along the south side of Risegate Eau (drain). Within Gosberton Clough the B1397 is named 'Clough Road', and in Risegate, 'Risegate Road', the villages separated at a bridge over the Risegate Eau at the junction with Chesboule Lane, running north, and Beach Lane, running south. The B1397 and the village is mirrored at the north of Risegate Eau by the parallel 'Siltside' (road). The Risegate Eau starts 2 miles (3 km) west at the South Forty-Foot Drain, then flows through the village, and reaches the River Welland at the Risegate Outfall sluice in Algarkirk Marsh, 7 miles (11 km) to the east. The north to south Hammond Beck intersects Risegate Eau at the west of the village, alongside of which is Beck Bank (road).\n Question: from this blob of text about gosberton clough, to which city does the river flow to?", "output": "Towards Lincoln, England"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Gyebangsan is a mountain of Gyeongsangnam-do, located in southeastern South Korea.\n Question: What is Gyebangsan?", "output": "Gyebangsan is a mountain, located in southeastern South Korea."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: William Henry Harrison (February 9, 1773 \u2013 April 4, 1841) was an American military officer and politician who served as the ninth president of the United States. Harrison died just 31 days after his inauguration in 1841, and had the shortest presidency in United States history. He was also the first United States president to die in office, and a brief constitutional crisis resulted as presidential succession was not then fully defined in the United States Constitution. Harrison was the last president born as a British subject in the Thirteen Colonies and was the paternal grandfather of Benjamin Harrison, the 23rd president of the United States.\n Question: Given a reference text about a president, tell me when he died.", "output": "April 4, 1841"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tamil Nadu (/\u02cct\u00e6m\u026al \u02c8n\u0251\u02d0du\u02d0/; Tamil: [\u02c8tami\u027b \u02c8na\u02d0\u027d\u026f] (listen), abbr. TN) is the southern-most state of India. The tenth largest Indian state by area and the sixth largest by population, Tamil Nadu is the home of the Tamil people, whose Tamil language\u2014one of the longest surviving classical languages in the world\u2014is widely spoken in the state and serves as its official language. The capital and largest city is Chennai.\n Question: What is the capital of Tamilnadu?", "output": "Chennai"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: This new season Adidas introduced Marseille's new kits, and these new ones are very different from last season, except the home kit, the colours of Marseille still stay white and sky blue. The away kit is an impressive kit with it being sky blue and has shades of black. The third kit was so far used in European competitions only. This kit is a full black kit but still has a little sky blue. In all of Marseille's kits there is one their main colour sky blue one.\n Question: Which company introduced new kits for Marseille?", "output": "Adidas"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: From November 17 to December 23, 1947, John Bardeen and Walter Brattain at AT&T's Bell Labs in Murray Hill, New Jersey performed experiments and observed that when two gold point contacts were applied to a crystal of germanium, a signal was produced with the output power greater than the input. Solid State Physics Group leader William Shockley saw the potential in this, and over the next few months worked to greatly expand the knowledge of semiconductors. The term transistor was coined by John R. Pierce as a contraction of the term transresistance. According to Lillian Hoddeson and Vicki Daitch, Shockley proposed that Bell Labs' first patent for a transistor should be based on the field-effect and that he be named as the inventor. Having unearthed Julius Edgar Lilienfeld's patents that went into obscurity years earlier, lawyers at Bell Labs advised against Shockley's proposal because the idea of a field-effect transistor that used an electric field as a \"grid\" was not new. Instead, what Bardeen, Brattain, and Shockley invented in 1947 was the first point-contact transistor. To acknowledge this accomplishment, Shockley, Bardeen and Brattain jointly received the 1956 Nobel Prize in Physics \"for their researches on semiconductors and their discovery of the transistor effect\".\n Question: Given the this paragraph about the invention of transistors, why did lawyers at Bell Labs advise Shockley against filing a patent for his field-effect transistors?", "output": "The idea had previously been proposed and patented by Julius Edgar Lilienfeld."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 2003, Yang Liwei was launched aboard Shenzhou 5, becoming the first person sent into space by the Chinese space program. This achievement made China the third country to independently send humans into space.\n Question: Who is the first astronaut to get into space in China?", "output": "Yang Liwei, who reached space in 2003 onboard the Shenzhou 5 space ship, is the first astronaut in China to reach space."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: After the United States was founded in 1776, abolition of slavery occurred in the Northern United States. The country was split into slave and free states. Still, slavery was not finally ended throughout the nation until near the end of the American Civil War and the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment in 1865.\n Question: When was slavery abolished in the United States?", "output": "Slavery was abolished via the Thirteenth Amendment in 1865 near the end of the American Civil War"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Timothy Francis Leary (October 22, 1920 \u2013 May 31, 1996) was an American psychologist and author known for his strong advocacy of psychedelic drugs. Evaluations of Leary are polarized, ranging from bold oracle to publicity hound. He was \"a hero of American consciousness\", according to Allen Ginsberg, and Tom Robbins called him a \"brave neuronaut\"\n Question: Who called Timothy Leary a brave neuronaut?", "output": "Tom Robbins called Timothy Leary a \"brave neuronaut\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus (/\u02c8n\u026a\u0259ro\u028a/ NEER-oh; born Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus; 15 December AD 37 \u2013 9 June AD 68), was the fifth Roman emperor and final emperor of the Julio-Claudian dynasty, reigning from AD 54 until his death in AD 68. He was adopted by the Roman emperor Claudius at the age of 13 and succeeded him on the throne. Nero was popular with the members of his Praetorian Guard and lower-class commoners in Rome and its provinces, but he was deeply resented by the Roman aristocracy. Most contemporary sources describe him as tyrannical, self-indulgent, and debauched. After being declared a public enemy by the Roman Senate, he committed suicide at age 30.\n\nNero was born at Antium in AD 37, the son of Gnaeus Domitius Ahenobarbus and Agrippina the Younger, a great-granddaughter of the emperor Augustus. When Nero was two years old, his father died. His mother married the emperor Claudius, who eventually adopted Nero as his heir; when Claudius died in AD 54, Nero became emperor with the support of the Praetorian Guard and the Senate. In the early years of his reign Nero was advised and guided by his mother Agrippina, his tutor Seneca the Younger, and his praetorian prefect Sextus Afranius Burrus, but he soon sought to rule independently and to rid himself of restraining influences. His power struggle with his mother was eventually resolved when he had her murdered. Roman sources also implicate Nero in the deaths of his wife Claudia Octavia \u2013 supposedly so that he could marry Poppaea Sabina \u2013 and of his step brother Britannicus.\n\nNero's practical contributions to Rome's governance focused on diplomacy, trade, and culture. He ordered the construction of amphitheaters, and promoted athletic games and contests. He also made public appearances as an actor, poet, musician, and charioteer, which scandalised his aristocratic contemporaries as these occupations were usually the domain of slaves, public entertainers and infamous persons. The provision of such entertainments made Nero popular among lower-class citizens, but his performances undermined the Imperial dignity. The costs involved were borne by local elites either directly or through taxation, and were much resented.\n\nDuring Nero's reign, the general Corbulo fought the Roman\u2013Parthian War of 58\u201363, and made peace with the hostile Parthian Empire. The Roman general Suetonius Paulinus quashed a major revolt in Britain led by the Iceni's queen Boudica. The Bosporan Kingdom was briefly annexed to the empire, and the First Jewish\u2013Roman War began. When the Roman senator Vindex rebelled, with support from the eventual Roman emperor Galba, Nero was declared a public enemy and condemned to death in absentia. He fled Rome, and on 9 June AD 68 he committed suicide. His death sparked a brief period of civil war known as the Year of the Four Emperors.\n\nMost Roman sources offer overwhelmingly negative assessments of his personality and reign. The historian Tacitus claims the Roman people thought him compulsive and corrupt. Suetonius tells that many Romans believed that the Great Fire of Rome was instigated by Nero to clear land for his planned \"Golden House\". Tacitus claims that Nero seized Christians as scapegoats for the fire and had them burned alive, seemingly motivated not by public justice but by personal cruelty. Some modern historians question the reliability of the ancient sources on Nero's tyrannical acts, considering his popularity among the Roman commoners. In the eastern provinces of the Empire, a popular legend arose that Nero had not died and would return. After his death, at least three leaders of short-lived, failed rebellions presented themselves as \"Nero reborn\" in order to gain popular support.\n\nEarly life\nNero was born Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus on 15 December 37 AD in Antium (modern Anzio).:\u200a87\u200a He was an only-child, the son of the politician Gnaeus Domitius Ahenobarbus and Agrippina the Younger. His mother Agrippina was the sister of the third Roman emperor Caligula.:\u200a5\u200a Nero was also the great-great-grandson of former emperor Augustus (descended from Augustus' only daughter, Julia).:\u200a2\u200a\n\nThe ancient biographer Suetonius, who was critical of Nero's ancestors, wrote that emperor Augustus had reproached Nero's grandfather for his unseemly enjoyment of violent gladiator games. According to J\u00fcrgen Malitz, Suetonius tells that Nero's father was known to be \"irascible and brutal\", and that both \"enjoyed chariot races and theater performances to a degree not befitting their position\".:\u200a3\u200a Suetonius also mentions that when Nero's father Domitius was congratulated by his friends for the birth of his son, he replied that any child born to him and Agrippina would have a detestable nature and become a public danger.\n\nDomitius died in 40 AD. A few years before his father's death, his father was involved in a serious political scandal.:\u200a3\u200a His mother and his two surviving sisters, Agrippina and Julia Livilla, were exiled to a remote island in the Mediterranean Sea.:\u200a4\u200a His mother was said to have been exiled for plotting to overthrow the emperor Caligula. Nero's inheritance was taken from him, and he was sent to live with his paternal aunt Domitia Lepida the Younger, the mother of later emperor Claudius's third wife, Messalina.:\u200a11\u200a\n\n\nAn aureus of Nero and his mother, c. 54. Caption: NERONIS CAES MATER AGRIPP. AVG. DIVI CLAVD. / NERONI CLAVD. DIVI F. CAES. AVG. GERM. IMP. TR. P. \u2013 EX SC\nAfter Caligula's death, Claudius became the new Roman Emperor. Nero's mother married Claudius in 49 AD, becoming his fourth wife. By February, 49 AD, his mother had persuaded Claudius to adopt her son Nero.\n\nAfter Nero's adoption by the emperor, \"Claudius\" became part of his name: Nero Claudius Caesar Drusus Germanicus. Claudius had gold coins issued to mark the adoption.:\u200a119\u200a Classics professor Josiah Osgood has written that \"the coins, through their distribution and imagery alike, showed that a new Leader was in the making.\":\u200a231\u200a However, David Shotter noted that, despite events in Rome, Nero's step-brother Britannicus was more prominent in provincial coinages during the early 50s.:\u200a52\u200a\n\nBust of Nero, National Museum in Oslo\nNero formally entered public life as an adult in 51 AD at approximately 14 years old.:\u200a51\u200a When he turned 16, Nero married Claudius' daughter (his step-sister), Claudia Octavia. Between the years 51 AD and 53 AD, he gave several speeches on behalf of various communities, including the Ilians; the Apameans (requesting a five-year tax reprieve after an earthquake); and the northern colony of Bologna, after their settlement had suffered a devastating fire.:\u200a231\u200a\n\nClaudius died in 54 AD; many ancient historians claim that he was poisoned by Agrippina. Shotter has written that \"Claudius' death in 54 AD has usually been regarded as an event hastened by Agrippina due to signs that Claudius was showing a renewed affection for his natural son\". He also notes that among ancient sources, the Roman historian Josephus was uniquely reserved in describing the poisoning as a rumor.:\u200a53\u200a\n\nContemporary sources differ in their accounts of the poisoning. Tacitus says that the poison-maker Locusta prepared the toxin, which was served to the Emperor by his servant Halotus. Tacitus also writes that Agrippina arranged for Claudius' doctor Xenophon to administer poison, in the event that the Emperor survived.:\u200a53\u200a Suetonius differs in some details, but also implicates Halotus and Agrippina. Like Tacitus, Cassius Dio writes that the poison was prepared by Locusta, but in Dio's account it is administered by Agrippina instead of Halotus. In Apocolocyntosis, Seneca the Younger does not mention mushrooms at all.:\u200a54\u200a Agrippina's involvement in Claudius' death is not accepted by all modern scholars.:\u200a589\u200a\n\nBefore Claudius' death, Agrippina had maneuvered to remove Claudius' sons' tutors in order to replace them with tutors that she had selected. She was also able to convince Claudius to replace two prefects of the Praetorian Guard (who were suspected of supporting Claudius' son) with Afranius Burrus (Nero's future guide).:\u200a13\u200a Since Agrippina had replaced the guard officers with men loyal to her, Nero was subsequently able to assume power without incident.:\u200a417\n Question: When and where was Nero born?", "output": "Nero was born at Antium (modern day Anzio, Italy) on December, 15th 37 AD."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The second series of Renminbi banknotes was introduced on March 1, 1955. Together with the introduction of the second series, the decimal point was moved 4 places to the left. As a result, one first series \u00a510,000 note is equivalent to one second series \u00a51 note. Though rarely used, coins of the 2nd series are still valid in the PRC, and the PBC also put new coins to the market.\n Question: When was the second series of Renminbi banknotes introduced in China?", "output": "The second series of Renminbi banknotes was introduced on March 1, 1955."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sh\u014drin-ry\u016b is generally characterized by natural breathing, natural (narrow, high) stances, and circular, rather than direct movements. Sh\u014drin-ry\u016b practitioners assert that correct motion, moving quickly to evade violence with fluid movements and flexible positions are important, and that a solid structure is vital for powerful blocks and strikes. Stances that are too deep generally make body movement difficult. Another feature in this system is how the student is taught to punch. Generally, there is neither a horizontal nor vertical punch in Sh\u014drin-ry\u016b. Punches are slightly canted to the inside (Isshin-ry\u016b), with the largest knuckle of the forefinger (third from the tip) in vertical alignment with the second knuckle of the pinky finger. It is believed that this position is key in lining up the bones of the arm and creates a faster, more stable and powerful strike.\n Question: Given the following note about training in a specific style of karate, tell me why its practitioners consider its fist alignment to offer advantages for their striking.", "output": "Practitioners of Sh\u014drin-ry\u016b believe lining up the second and third knuckle, along with the bones of the arm, enables them to deliver faster and more powerful punches."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Khanuy-Gol (also known as Bulgan Volcanic Field, Chanuj Gol Hanui Gol or Hanuy Gol) is a volcanic field in Mongolia. Khanuy-Gol is located in the northern Hangai range, north of the settlement of Bulgan.\n\nTopographic map\nIt covers a surface area of 3,500 square kilometres (1,400 sq mi) 150 kilometres (93 mi) southwest of Ulanbator. Among the 10 cones with heights of 30\u2013190 metres (98\u2013623 ft) that make up the field are Baga Togo Uul/Bogo-Togo-Ula (meaning \"Little Togo Mountain\", 28 metres (92 ft) high, 48\u00b055.79\u2032N 102\u00b046.22\u2032E to 48\u00b055.34\u2032N 102\u00b045.75\u2032E), Ikh Togo Uul/Ikha-Togo-Ula (meaning \"Great Togo mountain\", 219 metres (719 ft) high, 48\u00b059.53\u2032N 102\u00b044.48\u2032E), Togo, Urun Dush, and Uran Uul. This cone is the highest of the field, with a height of 280 metres (920 ft). Baga Togo Uul has one maar-like vent among its three vents, these vents are named Javalach, Togo and Tulga. Both Togo cones have a vegetation cover.\n Question: Where is the Bulgan Volcanic Field located?", "output": "The Bulgan Volcanic Field is located in Mongolia, in the northern Hangai range."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The student life building is called Newcomb Hall. It is home to the Student Activities Center (SAC) and the Media Activities Center (MAC), where student groups can get leadership consulting and use computing and copying resources, as well as several meeting rooms for student groups. Student Council, the student self-governing body, holds meetings Tuesdays at 6:30 p.m. in the Newcomb South Meeting Room. Student Council, or \"StudCo\", also holds office hours and regular committee meetings in the newly renovated Newcomb Programs and Council (PAC) Room. The PAC also houses the University Programs Council and Class Councils. Newcomb basement is home to both the office of the independent student newspaper The Declaration, The Cavalier Daily, and the Consortium of University Publications.\n Question: According to this paragraph about UVA, what is the PAC room?", "output": "The PAC room is the Newcomb Programs and Council Room, that also houses the University Programs Council and Class Councils."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Antwan Deon Odom (born September 24, 1981) is a former American football defensive end. He was drafted by the Tennessee Titans in the second round of the 2004 NFL Draft. He played college football at Alabama. He has also played for the Cincinnati Bengals.\n Question: On what month and day was Antwan Deon Odom born?", "output": "September 24"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Attack on Titan (Japanese: \u9032\u6483\u306e\u5de8\u4eba, Hepburn: Shingeki no Kyojin, lit.\u2009'The Advancing Giant') is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Hajime Isayama. It is set in a world where humanity is forced to live in cities surrounded by three enormous walls that protect them from gigantic man-eating humanoids referred to as Titans; the story follows Eren Yeager, who vows to exterminate the Titans after they bring about the destruction of his hometown and the death of his mother. It was serialized in Kodansha's monthly magazine Bessatsu Sh\u014dnen Magazine from September 2009 to April 2021, with its chapters collected in 34 tank\u014dbon volumes.\n Question: What are the titans?", "output": "In Attack on Titan, the Titans are gigantic man-eating humanoids that destroyed Eren Yeager's hometown and caused the death of his mother. The Titans cause humanity to live in cities surrounded by three enormous walls to protect themselves."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The evolution of triathlon as a distinct sport is difficult to trace with precision. Many, including triathlon historian and author Scott Tinley, consider events in early twentieth century France to be the beginnings of triathlon, with many three element multisport events of differing composition appearing, all called by different names. The earliest record for an event was from 1901 in Joinville-le-Pont, Val-de-Marne: it called itself \"Les Trois Sports\" (The Three Sports). It was advertised as an event for \"the sportsmen of the time\" and consisted of a run, a bicycle and a canoe segment. By 19 June 1921, the event in Joinville-le-Pont had become more like a standard triathlon, with the canoe segment being replaced with a swim. According to the newspaper L\u2019Auto, the race consisted of a 3 km (1.9 mi) run, a 12 km (7.5 mi) bike ride and the crossing of the river Marne, all staged consecutively and without a break. Throughout the 1920s other bike, run, and swim events appeared in different cities, such as the \u201cCourse des Trois Sports\u201d in Marseille and \"La Course des D\u00e9brouillards\" in Poissy. These multisport events would continue to slowly spread and grow in popularity: by 1934 \"Les Trois Sports\" was being hosted in the city of La Rochelle, though it consisted of three distinct events, swimming a 200 m (660 ft) channel crossing, a 10 km (6 mi) bike competition around the harbour of La Rochelle and the parc Laleu, and a 1.2 km (0.75 mi) run in the stadium Andr\u00e9-Barbeau. Throughout this growth with new events appearing no unified rules ever existed and as a whole triathlon would remain a minority event on the world stage\n Question: Given this paragraph about the history of triathlon, what is the earliest known triathlon event.", "output": "Triathlon events have evolved of the years, and its origins are not fully known. Triathlon historians have evidenced multisports events dating back to 1901. In this era \"Les Trois Sports\" did not include the swim as it does in modern day triathlon, but instead included a canoe discipline. As the name suggest, triathlon appears to have first surfaced in the history books in france in the suburbs of paris known as Joinville-le-pont, Val-de-marne."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The auditorium opened as the Union Gospel Tabernacle in 1892. Its construction was spearheaded by Thomas Ryman (1843\u20131904), a Nashville businessman who owned several saloons and a fleet of riverboats. Ryman conceived the idea of the auditorium as a tabernacle for the influential revivalist Samuel Porter Jones. He had attended one of Jones' 1885 tent revivals with the intent to heckle, but was instead converted into a devout Christian who pledged to build the tabernacle so the people of Nashville could attend large-scale revivals indoors. It took seven years to complete and cost US$100,000 (equivalent to $3,015,926 in 2021). Jones held his first revival at the site on May 25, 1890, when only the building's foundation and six-foot (1.8 m) walls had been completed.\n Question: According to the text, given the initial cost of building the auditorium and the equivalent cost in 2021, what is the value of 1892 dollars in 2021?", "output": "30.15926, since 3,015,926/100,000 = 30.15926"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Beavers (genus Castor) are large, semiaquatic rodents of the Northern Hemisphere. There are two existing species: the North American beaver (Castor canadensis) and the Eurasian beaver (C. fiber). Beavers are the second-largest living rodents, after capybaras, weighing up to 30 kilograms (66 lb). Beavers have stout bodies with large heads, long chisel-like incisors, brown or gray fur, hand-like front feet, webbed back feet, and tails that are flat and scaly. The two species differ in skull and tail shape and fur color. Beavers can be found in a number of freshwater habitats, such as rivers, streams, lakes and ponds. They are herbivorous, consuming tree bark, aquatic plants, grasses and sedges.\n Question: Given this paragraph how much do Beavers weigh?", "output": "Up to 30 kilograms or 66 pounds"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Zygmunt\u00f3wek [z\u0268\u0261mun\u02c8tuv\u025bk] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Malan\u00f3w, within Turek County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. It lies approximately 2 kilometres (1 mi) north of Malan\u00f3w, 10 km (6 mi) south-west of Turek, and 112 km (70 mi) south-east of the regional capital Pozna\u0144.\n Question: What direction (North-South-East-West) is Malan\u00f3w from Zygmunt\u00f3wek?", "output": "Malan\u00f3w is south of Zygmunt\u00f3wek. We know this because Zygmunt\u00f3wek is north of Malan\u00f3w."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 5' 11\" (1.80 m), 165 lb (75 kg) point guard, began his professional career in 1989 when he was selected in the first round of the NBA draft by the Seattle SuperSonics with the 16th pick. Most of his time spent in Seattle was as a backup to point guard Gary Payton, who was considered to be a much more competent ball handler and defender, as Barros was deemed more usable at shooting guard. Prior to the 1993\u201394 season, the Sonics traded Barros to the Charlotte Hornets in exchange for Kendall Gill. Two days later, Charlotte traded Barros, Sidney Green, and their 1993 draft choice, Greg Graham, to the Philadelphia 76ers for Hersey Hawkins. Barros became a free agent at the end of the 1994-95 NBA season. He signed with his hometown Boston Celtics, and remained for five seasons as a role player alongside David Wesley and Dee Brown and mentor to younger players such as Antoine Walker and Paul Pierce. In the offseason of 2000, Barros was traded to the Dallas Mavericks as part of a four-team deal that also involved the Utah Jazz and Golden State Warriors. By the time the 2000\u201301 season had commenced, the Mavs had traded Barros to the Detroit Pistons, where he played 89 games over two seasons, averaging 7.5 points per game, until waiving him in 2002.\n Question: Based on this paragraph, how many times was Barros traded during his professional basketball career?", "output": "Based on this paragraph, Barros was traded four times while in the NBA (from Seattle to Charlotte; from Charlotte to Philadelphia; from Boston to Dallas; from Dallas to Detroit)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: At international level, Hagi played for the Romania national team in three FIFA World Cups, in 1990, 1994 (where he was named in the World Cup All-Star Team after helping his nation to the quarter-finals of the tournament) and 1998; as well as in three UEFA European Championships, in 1984, 1996 and 2000. He won a total of 124 caps for Romania between 1983 and 2000, making him the second-most capped Romanian player of all time, behind only Dorinel Munteanu; he is also the joint all-time leading goalscorer of the Romania national side (alongside Adrian Mutu) with 35 goals.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Gheorge Hagi, tell me which were his top achievements in the Romanian football team.", "output": "Gheorghe Hagi is arguably the best Romanian football player holding the record for most goals scored with the national team. He participated in 3 World Cups and 3 European Championships and he was awarded a spot in the World Cup All-Start Team in 1994."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Being There is a satirical novel by the Polish-born writer Jerzy Kosinski, published April 21, 1971. Set in America, the story concerns Chance, a simple gardener who unwittingly becomes a much sought-after political pundit and commentator on the vagaries of the modern world. It has been suggested that Kosinski modeled the character of Chance after a former greenhouse manager named Jerry Jarvis who became the national leader of the transcendental meditation movement during the late 1960s and early 1970s, whom Kosinski had met at the local TM Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and who embodied the calm and simple manner of Chauncy Gardiner. The Cambridge TM Center was for years located at the corner of Chauncy and Garden Streets.\n\nA film based on the book was made in 1979; Kosinski co-wrote the film's screenplay with Robert C. Jones.\n Question: Given a reference text about Being There, tell me when the book was published and when a film about the book was created.", "output": "Being There was published on April 21, 1971 and a film about the book was made in 1979."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Lake Como (Italian: Lago di Como [\u02c8la\u02d0\u0261o di \u02c8k\u0254\u02d0mo], locally [\u02c8ko\u02d0mo]; Western Lombard: Lagh de C\u00f2mm [\u02c8l\u0251\u02d0\u203fd\u02d0e \u02c8k\u0254m], C\u00f3mm [\u02c8kom] or C\u00f9mm [\u02c8kum]), also known as Lario (Italian: [\u02c8la\u02d0rjo]; after the Latin: Larius Lacus), is a lake of glacial origin in Lombardy, Italy. It has an area of 146 square kilometres (56 sq mi), making it the third-largest lake in Italy, after Lake Garda and Lake Maggiore. At over 400 metres (1,300 ft) deep, it is the fifth deepest lake in Europe, and the deepest outside Norway; the bottom of the lake is more than 200 metres (660 ft) below sea level.\n\nLake Como has been a popular retreat for aristocrats and wealthy people since Roman times, and a very popular tourist attraction with many artistic and cultural gems. It has many villas and palaces such as Villa Olmo, Villa Serbelloni, and Villa Carlotta. Many famous people have had and have homes on the shores of Lake Como.\n\nOne of its particularities is its \"Y\" shape, which forms the \"Larian Triangle\", with the little town of Canzo as its capital.\n\nIn 2014, The Huffington Post called it the most beautiful lake in the world for its microclimate and environment with prestigious villas and villages\n Question: Where is Lake Como located?", "output": "Lake Como is located in the Lombardy region in Italy."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Teresa Giudice (/\u02c8d\u0292u\u02d0d\u026at\u0283e\u026a/ JOO-ditch-ay, Italian: [te\u02c8r\u025b\u02d0za \u02c8d\u0292u\u02d0dit\u0283e]; n\u00e9e Gorga; born May 18, 1972) is an American television personality best known for starring in The Real Housewives of New Jersey. Besides appearing on the show, Giudice wrote multiple New York Times bestseller cookbooks and was featured on Donald Trump's The Celebrity Apprentice 5 (2012).\n Question: Who is Teresa Giudice?", "output": "Teresa Giudice is a reality TV star who is most famous for Bravo's The Real Housewives of New Jersey. She is also a New York Times best selling cookbook author who specializes in Italian cuisine."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sam F.S. Chin (Chin Fan Siong, \u66fe\u5e06\u7965, born August 1, 1954) is the Grandmaster and Gatekeeper of the martial art called I Liq Chuan, and also known as \"the Martial Art of Awareness\". Chin developed the grading system for this system.\n Question: Who created the grading system for the I Liq Chuan martial art?", "output": "Sam F. S. Chin developed the grading system for the I Liq Chuan martial art."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Harold Brainerd Hersey (April 11, 1893 \u2013 March 1956) was an American pulp editor and publisher, publishing several volumes of poetry. His pulp industry observations were published in hardback as Pulpwood Editor (1937).\n Question: Given this paragraph about Harold Brainerd Hersey, what did he do and when were his observations published?", "output": "Harold Brainerd Herse was an American pulp editor and publisher. His observations were published in 1937."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Satoshi Nakamoto is the name used by the presumed inventors of Bitcoin. It is probably a pseudonym or nom de plume for the creator.\n\nThe anonymous programmer, Satoshi Nakamoto allegedly developed bitcoin, authored the bitcoin white paper, and created how it was to be used. As part of the implementation, Nakamoto devised the first blockchain database, this has been confirmed. They were active in developing bitcoin until December 2010. Many people have claimed, or have been claimed, to be Nakamoto. Nakamoto's BTC wallet worth approx. 1 million BTC (48 billion USD) or 5% of all BTC mined to this day, was activated in December 2021 after 10 years. Before this it was last activated 17 May 2010.\"\n Question: Who is Satoshi Nakamoto?", "output": "Satoshi Nakamoto is the name used by the presumed inventors of Bitcoin. It is probably a pseudonym or nom de plume for the creator."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The siege of B\u00e9xar (or B\u00e9jar) was an early campaign of the Texas Revolution in which a volunteer Texian army defeated Mexican forces at San Antonio de B\u00e9xar (now San Antonio, Texas). Texians had become disillusioned with the Mexican government as President and General Antonio L\u00f3pez de Santa Anna's tenure became increasingly dictatorial. In early October 1835, Texas settlers gathered in Gonzales to stop Mexican troops from reclaiming a small cannon. The resulting skirmish, known as the Battle of Gonzales, launched the Texas Revolution. Men continued to assemble in Gonzales and soon established the Texian Army. Despite a lack of military training, well-respected local leader General Stephen F. Austin was elected commander.\n Question: Given this paragraph, who was the President of Mexico during the seige of Bexar?", "output": "Based on this text, during the seige of Bexar Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna was the President of Mexico."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Schechter was born in Boston and grew up in Brookline, Massachusetts and New York City. Her father, Danny Schechter, a grandson of Russian-Jewish immigrant socialists, was a human rights activist, author, filmmaker and television producer.\n Question: Where was Sarah Schechter born?", "output": "Sarah Schechter was born in Boston, Massachusetts."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Machu Picchu is both a cultural and natural UNESCO World Heritage Site. Since its rediscovery in 1911, growing numbers of tourists have visited the site each year, with numbers exceeding 1.4 million in 2017. As Peru's most visited tourist attraction, and a major revenue generator, it is continually exposed to economic and commercial forces. In the late 1990s, the Peruvian government granted concessions to allow the construction of a cable car and a luxury hotel, including a tourist complex with boutiques and restaurants and a bridge to the site. Many people protested the plans, including Peruvians and foreign scientists, saying that more visitors would pose a physical burden on the ruins. In 2018, plans were restarted to again construct a cable car to encourage Peruvians to visit Machu Picchu and boost domestic tourism. A no-fly zone exists above the area. UNESCO is considering putting Machu Picchu on its List of World Heritage in Danger.\n Question: Given this paragraph, what is Peru's most popular tourist attraction and how many people visit it every year?", "output": "Machu Picchu is Peru's most visited tourist attraction, and a considerable number of people visit it every year. My data shows 1.4 million people visited Machu Picchu in the year 2017."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A Half-pistole was a Scottish gold coin minted in 1701 under the reign of King William III. Along with the Pistole it was one of last gold coin minted for the Kingdom of Scotland before the Acts of Union 1707. The Half-pistole was equal to 6 Scottish pounds with an approximate value equal to the British Half guinea.\n Question: According to this article, how many Scottish pounds would four Half-pistole be worth?", "output": "Four Half-pistole would be worth twenty-four (24) Scottish pounds. Each Half-pistole is 6 Scottish pounds and 6 x 4 = 24."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Solar System is the gravitationally bound system of the Sun and the objects that orbit it. It formed 4.6 billion years ago from the gravitational collapse of a giant interstellar molecular cloud. The vast majority (99.86%) of the system's mass is in the Sun, with most of the remaining mass contained in the planet Jupiter. The planetary system around the Sun contains eight planets. The four inner system planets\u2014Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars\u2014are terrestrial planets, being composed primarily of rock and metal. The four giant planets of the outer system are substantially larger and more massive than the terrestrials. The two largest, Jupiter and Saturn, are gas giants, being composed mainly of hydrogen and helium; the next two, Uranus and Neptune, are ice giants, being composed mostly of volatile substances with relatively high melting points compared with hydrogen and helium, such as water, ammonia, and methane. All eight planets have nearly circular orbits that lie near the plane of Earth's orbit, called the ecliptic.\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solar_System\n Question: Based on this paragraph, which two objects account for the majority of the mass of the Solar System?", "output": "Based on this paragraph, the Sun and Jupiter are the two objects that account for the majority of the mass of the Solar System, with the Sun responsible for 99.86% of the total."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Robert Gordon Orr OC (born March 20, 1948) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey player, widely acknowledged as one of the greatest of all time. Orr used his ice skating speed, scoring, and play-making abilities to revolutionize the position of defenceman. He played in the National Hockey League (NHL) for 12 seasons, the first 10 with the Boston Bruins, followed by two with the Chicago Black Hawks. Orr remains the only defenceman to have won the league scoring title with two Art Ross Trophies. He holds the record for most points and assists in a single season by a defenceman. Orr won a record eight consecutive Norris Trophies as the NHL's best defenceman and three consecutive Hart Trophies as the league's most valuable player (MVP). Orr was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1979 at age 31, the youngest to be inducted at that time. In 2017, Orr was named by the National Hockey League as one of the \"100 Greatest NHL Players\" in history.\n Question: What team did Bobby Orr play for in his 5th season?", "output": "Bobby Orr played for the Boston Bruins in his 5th season in the National Hockey League (NHL).\n\nHe played in the NHL for 12 seasons, the first 10 with the Boston Bruins, followed by two with the Chicago Black Hawks."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 208, Cao Cao marched south with his army hoping to quickly unify the empire. Liu Biao's son Liu Cong surrendered Jing Province and Cao was able to capture a sizable fleet at Jiangling. Sun Quan, the successor to Sun Ce in the lower Yangtze, continued to resist. His advisor Lu Su secured an alliance with Liu Bei, himself a recent refugee from the north, and Zhou Yu was placed in command of Sun Quan's navy, along with a veteran general who served the Sun family, Cheng Pu. Their combined armies of 50,000 met Cao Cao's fleet and 200,000-strong force at Red Cliffs that winter. Cao Cao had to cross the mighty Yangtze River. So when he along with his fleet sailed down the river, many of his men fell to exhaustion, disease and the northerners were not very comfortable on ships and the marshy terrain. So when the two sides met for war at Wulin, Cao Cao wasn\u2019t able to inflict any defeat on the Allied Force. On the other hand, General Huang Gai of Sun Quan\u2019s army came up with a sneaky plan. He sent a forged letter to Cao Cao, stating that he and others wanted to inflict to his side and they would also bring some of the finest ships of the allies. But little did Cao know that the ships were full of flammable reeds. So when they sailed and approached his fleet, they were set alight and they destroyed Cao Cao\u2019s fleet and camps. Seeing the hopeless situation, Cao Cao ordered his army for a difficult retreat through the Marshlands, during which more of his men fell to disease and exhaustion. The allied victory at Red Cliffs ensured the survival of Liu Bei and Sun Quan, and provided the basis for the states of Shu and Wu.\n Question: Could you tell me how Cao Cao's fleet got destroyed during the battle of Red Cliffs based on this paragraph?", "output": "Cao Cao's fleet got set on fire by the General Huang Gai. Huang Gai initially informed Cao Cao that he'd betray the Allied Force formed by Liu Bei and Sun Quan. But Huang Gai was actually trying to take this chance to send ships loaded with flammable reeds to Cao Cao's fleet. Cao Cao took the bait and accepted the offer from Huang Gai. Then, when Huang Gai's ships arrived, the Allied Force set Cao Cao's fleet and camps on fire and essentially destroyed Cao Cao's army."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The United States version is produced by Mark Burnett and hosted by Jeff Probst, who also serves as an executive producer. Each competition is called a season, has a unique name, and lasts from 13 to 16 episodes. The first season, Survivor: Borneo, was broadcast as a summer replacement show in 2000. Starting with the third season, Survivor: Africa, there have been two seasons aired during each U.S. television season. Starting with the forty-first season, no subtitle has been used in promotion of the season. Instead, the show began following a number format similar to Big Brother and The Amazing Race.\n\nIn the first season, there was a 75-person crew. By season 22, the crew had grown to 325 people.\n\nA total of 662 contestants have competed on Survivor's 44 seasons.\n Question: How many seasons of Survivor has there been?", "output": "There have been 44 seasons of Survivor."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Artificial intelligence (AI) is intelligence demonstrated by machines, as opposed to intelligence of humans and other animals. Example tasks in which this is done include speech recognition, computer vision, translation between (natural) languages, as well as other mappings of inputs.\n Question: What are some examples of tasks performed by AI?", "output": "Examples of tasks performed by AI include speech recognition, computer vision, translation between (natural) languages, and other mappings of inputs."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Deep learning is part of a broader family of machine learning methods based on artificial neural networks with representation learning. Learning can be supervised, semi-supervised or unsupervised.\n\nDeep-learning architectures such as deep neural networks, deep belief networks, deep reinforcement learning, recurrent neural networks, convolutional neural networks and transformers have been applied to fields including computer vision, speech recognition, natural language processing, machine translation, bioinformatics, drug design, medical image analysis, climate science, material inspection and board game programs, where they have produced results comparable to and in some cases surpassing human expert performance.\n\nArtificial neural networks (ANNs) were inspired by information processing and distributed communication nodes in biological systems. ANNs have various differences from biological brains. Specifically, artificial neural networks tend to be static and symbolic, while the biological brain of most living organisms is dynamic (plastic) and analog.\n\nThe adjective \"deep\" in deep learning refers to the use of multiple layers in the network. Early work showed that a linear perceptron cannot be a universal classifier, but that a network with a nonpolynomial activation function with one hidden layer of unbounded width can. Deep learning is a modern variation that is concerned with an unbounded number of layers of bounded size, which permits practical application and optimized implementation, while retaining theoretical universality under mild conditions. In deep learning the layers are also permitted to be heterogeneous and to deviate widely from biologically informed connectionist models, for the sake of efficiency, trainability and understandability.\n Question: What is deep learning?", "output": "Deep learning is part of a broader family of machine learning methods based on artificial neural networks with representation learning."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Tesla Model 3 became the world's all-time best-selling electric car in early 2020, and in June 2021 became the first electric car to pass 1 million global sales. Together with other emerging automotive technologies such as autonomous driving, connected vehicles and shared mobility, electric cars form a future mobility vision called Autonomous, Connected, Electric and Shared (ACES) Mobility.\n Question: What was the first electric car to pass 1 million global sales?", "output": "The Tesla Model 3"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Several methods exist for storing hydrogen. These include mechanical approaches such as using high pressures and low temperatures, or employing chemical compounds that release H2 upon demand. While large amounts of hydrogen are produced by various industries, it is mostly consumed at the site of production, notably for the synthesis of ammonia. For many years hydrogen has been stored as compressed gas or cryogenic liquid, and transported as such in cylinders, tubes, and cryogenic tanks for use in industry or as propellant in space programs. Interest in using hydrogen for on-board storage of energy in zero-emissions vehicles is motivating the development of new methods of storage, more adapted to this new application. The overarching challenge is the very low boiling point of H2: it boils around 20.268 K (\u2212252.882 \u00b0C or \u2212423.188 \u00b0F). Achieving such low temperatures requires expending significant energy.\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hydrogen_storage\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Hydrogen Storage, what are some of its use cases?", "output": "It's been used in the industry or as propellant in space programs. Interest in using hydrogen for on-board storage of energy in zero-emissions vehicles is motivating the development of new methods of storage, more adapted to this new application."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Clemson University (/\u02c8kl\u025bmp.s\u0259n, \u02c8kl\u025bm.z\u0259n/[note a]) is a public land-grant research university in Clemson, South Carolina. Founded in 1889, Clemson is the second-largest university by enrollment in South Carolina. For the fall 2019 semester, the university enrolled a total of 20,195 undergraduate students and 5,627 graduate students, and the student/faculty ratio was 18:1. Clemson's 1,400-acre campus  is in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains. The campus now borders Lake Hartwell, which was formed by the dam completed in 1962. The university manages the nearby 17,500-acre Clemson Experimental Forest that is used for research, education, and recreation.\n\nClemson University consists of seven colleges: Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences; Architecture, Arts and Humanities; The Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business; Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences; Education; Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences; and Science. U.S. News & World Report ranks Clemson University 77th for 2022 among national U.S. universities. Clemson University is classified among \"R1: Doctoral Universities \u2013 Very high research activity.\"\n Question: What is Clemson University?", "output": "Clemson University is a School based in the Upstate of South Carolina in a town called Clemson. They are known for their Football team and bright orange paw. Clemson is consistently a top 10 football team. Their biggest in-state rival is the University of South Carolina Gamecocks. Clemson has 7 different colleges ranging from Engineering, Business, Agriculture, and Health Sciences."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The handscroll is a long, narrow, horizontal scroll format in East Asia used for calligraphy or paintings. A handscroll usually measures up to several meters in length and around 25\u201340 cm in height. Handscrolls are generally viewed starting from the right end. This kind of scroll is intended to be read or viewed flat on a table, in sections. The format thus allows for the depiction of a continuous narrative or journey. The traditional alternative format in East Asian paintings is the vertical hanging scroll, which is rarely as long.\n Question: What is handscroll used for", "output": "The handscroll is a long, narrow, horizontal scroll format in East Asia used for calligraphy or paintings."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Black Bear Road is open a few months of the year, from late summer (usually the last week of July) to early fall. The road is traveled only downhill from Red Mountain Pass \u2014 except for the annual Jeeper's Jamboree in which travel is reversed for one day only. The start of the trail was formerly marked along U.S. 550 with a sign that read:\n Question: Can someone drive on Black Bear Road during the winter?", "output": "No, it is only open from late summer to early fall."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Shirley C. Guthrie Jr. (9 October 1927 \u2013 23 October 2004) was a minister of the Presbyterian Church (USA) and J.B. Green Professor of Systematic Theology at Columbia Theological Seminary for nearly 40 years. He was well known for his book, Christian Doctrine, which was originally written for an Adult Sunday School Book in the old PCUS Covenant life curriculum.\n Question: Were the months that Shirley C. Guthrie Jr. was born and died in the same month or different months?", "output": "The same.  Shirley C. Guthrie Jr. was born in October 1927 and died in October 2004."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Autism therapies include a wide variety of therapies that help people with autism, or their families. Such methods of therapy also seek the increase of functional independence in autistic people. Many therapies marketed towards autistic people and/or their parents claim outcomes that have not been supported by Level of Research (LOE) Level 1 (highest level assigned based on the methodological quality of their design, validity, and applicability to patient care). Level 1 research includes evidence from a systematic review or meta-analysis of all relevant RCTs (randomized controlled trial) or evidence-based clinical practice guidelines based on systematic reviews of RCTs or three or more RCTs of good quality that have similar results.\n\n\nAutism is a neurotype characterized by sensory and communication difference, when compared to neurotypical and allistic individuals.None of these therapies eliminate autism within someone, let alone to a high degree of viability. Autistic children grow up to become autistic adults at risk of burnout and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) inflicted during childhood and adolescence, often overlooked by those who prioritize the elimination of autism over the common well-being of autistic people. Treatment is typically catered to the person's needs. Treatments fall into two major categories: educational interventions and medical management. Training and support are also given to families of those diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs)\n\n\nStudies of interventions have some methodological problems that prevent definitive conclusions about efficacy.Although many psychosocial interventions have some positive evidence, suggesting that some form of treatment is preferable to no treatment, the systematic reviews have reported that the quality of these studies has generally been poor, their clinical results are mostly tentative, and there is little evidence for the relative effectiveness of treatment options.Intensive, sustained special education programs and behavior therapy early in life can help children with ASD acquire self-care, social, and job skills,and often can improve functioning, and decrease symptom severity and maladaptive behaviors;Available approaches include applied behavior analysis (ABA), developmental models, structured teaching, speech and language therapy, social skills therapy, and occupational therapy. Occupational therapists work with autistic children by creating interventions that promote social interaction like sharing and cooperation.They also support the autistic child by helping them work through a dilemma as the OT imitates the child and waiting for a response from the child.Educational interventions have some effectiveness in children: intensive ABA treatment has demonstrated effectiveness in enhancing global functioning in preschool children,and is well established for improving intellectual performance of young children.Neuropsychological reports are often poorly communicated to educators, resulting in a gap between what a report recommends and what education is provided.The limited research on the effectiveness of adult residential programs shows mixed results.\n\n\nMany medications are used to treat problems associated with ASD.More than half of U.S. children diagnosed with ASD are prescribed psychoactive drugs or anticonvulsants, with the most common drug classes being antidepressants, stimulants.Aside from antipsychotics,there is scant reliable research about the effectiveness or safety of drug treatments for adolescents and adults with ASD.A person with ASD may respond atypically to medications, the medications can have adverse effects, and no known medication relieves autism's core symptoms of social and communication impairments.\n\n\nAs of 2008 the treatments prescribed to children with ASD were expensive;indirect costs are more so. For someone born in 2000, a U.S. study estimated an average discounted lifetime cost of $4.66 million (2023 dollars, inflation-adjusted from 2003 estimate), with about 10% medical care, 30% extra education and other care, and 60% lost economic productivity.A UK study estimated discounted lifetime costs at \u00a31.9 million and \u00a31.23 million for an autistic person with and without intellectual disability, respectively(2023 pounds, inflation-adjusted from 2005/06 estimate). Legal rights to treatment are complex, vary with location and age, and require advocacy by caregivers. Publicly supported programs are often inadequate or inappropriate for a given child, and unreimbursed out-of-pocket medical or therapy expenses are associated with likelihood of family financial problems;one 2008 U.S. study found a 14% average loss of annual income in families of children with ASD, and a related study found that ASD is associated with higher probability that child care problems will greatly affect parental employment.\n Question: What therapies are available for Autism?", "output": "There are multiple therapies available for Autism depending on the spectrum.\nIntensive, sustained special education programs and behaviour therapy early in life can help children with ASD acquire self-care, social, and job skills, and often can improve functioning and decrease symptom severity and maladaptive behaviours; Available approaches include applied behaviour analysis (ABA), developmental models, structured teaching, speech and language therapy, social skills therapy, and occupational therapy. Occupational therapists work with autistic children by creating interventions that promote social interaction like sharing and cooperation. They also support the autistic child by helping them work through a dilemma as the OT imitates the child and waits for a response from the child. Educational interventions have some effectiveness in children: intensive ABA treatment has demonstrated effectiveness in enhancing global functioning in preschool children and is well-established for improving the intellectual performance of young children."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Catheterized bladders become colonized by microorganisms very quickly, with a daily incidence of 3-10%; after four days, between 10-30% of patients develop bacteriuria. Whilst the presence of a catheter does increase the incidence of bloodstream infections secondary to a urinary origin, there is a huge amount of unnecessary, and likely harmful, antimicrobial prescribing on the basis of detection of asymptomatic bacteriuria. The industry is moving to silver-coated catheters in an attempt to reduce the incidence of urinary tract infections, although there is limited evidence of efficacy. An additional problem is that Foley catheters tend to become coated over time with a biofilm that can obstruct the drainage. This increases the amount of stagnant urine left in the bladder, which further contributes to urinary tract infections. When a Foley catheter becomes clogged, it must be flushed or replaced. There is currently not enough adequate evidence to conclude whether washouts are beneficial or harmful.\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foley_catheter\n Question: Given a reference text about the adverse affects of Foley catheters, please list the main risks.", "output": "The risks of a Foley catheter include urinary tract and bloodstream infections. In addition, overprescribing of medications to treat infections leads to what is likely additional risk."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Most classifications of Magic the Gathering decks begin from one of four major strategies: aggro, control, combo and midrange.\n\nAggro\nAggro (short for \"aggressive\") decks attempt to reduce their opponents from 20 life to 0 life as quickly as possible, rather than emphasize a long-term game plan. Aggro decks focus on converting their cards into damage; they prefer to engage in a race for tempo rather than a card advantage-based attrition war. Aggro generally relies upon creatures as its accumulative source of damage. Aggro decks can quickly overwhelm unprepared opponents and proceed to eke out the last bit of damage they need to end the game. Aggro decks also generally have access to disruptive elements, which can inhibit the opponent's attempts to respond.\n\nExample cards: Savannah Lions, Bitterblossom, Lightning Bolt, Rogue Elephant, Incinerate\nExample decks:\nWhite Weenie, which uses small, efficient creatures such as Savannah Lions, Icatian Javelineers, and Mother of Runes\nAffinity, which uses the affinity mechanic and large numbers of artifacts to quickly play spells such as Thoughtcast and Frogmite, while efficiently dealing damage using Disciple of the Vault and Arcbound Ravager.\nZoo, which uses low-cost, high power creatures such as Tarmogoyf and Wild Nacatl to kill the opponent quickly.\nSligh, which utilizes its mana as efficiently as possible to kill the opponent quickly, using low-cost cards such as Jackal Pup and Lightning Bolt.\nSuicide Black, which uses efficient but dangerous cards that cost life such as Thoughtseize, Dark Confidant, Grim Tutor, and Bitterblossom. Suicide Black epitomizes Black's philosophy\u2014win at all costs\u2014and treats even its life total as an expendable resource.\nControl\nControl decks avoid racing. They attempt to slow the game down by executing an attrition plan. As the game progresses, control decks are able to take advantage of their slower, more powerful, cards. The primary strength of control decks is their ability to devalue the opponent\u2019s cards. They do this in four ways:\n\nAnswering threats at a reduced cost. Given the opportunity, Control decks can gain card advantage by answering multiple threats with one spell (\"clearing\"/\"wiping\" the board), stopping expensive threats with cheaper spells, and drawing multiple cards or forcing the opponent to discard multiple cards with one spell.\nNot playing threats to be answered. By playing few proactive spells of their own, control decks gain virtual card advantage by reducing the usefulness of opposing removal cards.\nDisrupting synergies. Even if control decks do not deal with every threat directly, they can leave out whichever ones stand poorly on their own; e.g., an enchantment which gives a bonus to creatures will never need attention if all enemy creatures are quickly neutralized.\nDragging the game out past opposing preparations. An opponent's faster, efficient cards will become less effective over time.\nExample cards: Force of Will, Duress, Wrath of God, Pernicious Deed, Void\nExample decks:\nTezzeret Control, which controls the game using counterspells such as Mana Drain, builds card advantage with cards such as Dark Confidant, and ends the game using Tezzeret the Seeker to find Time Vault and activate it for infinite turns.\nMono Blue Control, which uses a heavy suite of counterspells alongside card-drawing such as Thirst for Knowledge, removal such as Echoing Truth, and a win condition such as Tezzeret the Seeker. This class of deck is nicknamed \"Draw-Go,\" because most of its players' spells are instants designed to be played during his or her opponents' turns.\nBlue-White Control, which is similar to Mono-Blue Control, but features more board-control cards such as Wrath of God, and Pacifism.\nPsychatog, supplemented by card-drawing like Fact or Fiction and a number of disruptive spells.\nAstral Slide, which uses large numbers of cards with cycling, including those with added benefits such as Eternal Dragon and Slice and Dice, to power Astral Slide and Lightning Rift.\nMono-Black Control, which uses removal spells such as Innocent Blood and Barter in Blood to control the board, and Cabal Coffers to kill the opponent with spells such as Consume Spirit. It can also use cards like Underworld Dreams to put the opponent on a timer.\nThe Deck, which uses card drawing such as Fact or Fiction and deck searching cards such as Demonic Tutor to find powerful cards that are highly effective against particular strategies (such as The Abyss, Diabolic Edict, and Balance), alongside a Blue base of counterspells to control the game and obtain an insurmountable lead.\nCombo\nCombo decks use the interaction of two or more cards (a \"combination\") to create a powerful effect that either wins the game immediately or creates a situation that subsequently leads to a win. Combo decks value consistency, speed, and resilience: the deck should be reliable enough to produce the combo on a regular basis, the deck should be able to use the combo fast enough to win before the opponent, and the deck should be able to withstand disruption and still win.\n\nMany decks have smaller, combo-like interactions between their cards, which is better described as synergy.\n\nExample cards: Flash, Tendrils of Agony, Empty the Warrens, Aluren, Painter's Servant.\nExample decks:\nThe Perfect Storm, which utilizes Dark Ritual and artifact mana to draw cards and fuel a lethal Tendrils of Agony, all the while disrupting the opponent with Duress and Force of Will.\nPainter Combo, which uses Painter's Servant and chooses Blue to permit Red Elemental Blast to destroy any permanent or counter any spell, while also allowing Grindstone to put the opponent's entire library into their graveyard.\nWorldgorger Dragon Combo, which revolves around the infinite loop triggered when Worldgorger Dragon is animated from the graveyard using an enchantment such as Animate Dead. The loop generates mana and card drawing which is then used to end the game.\nBelcher Combo, which uses free and efficient mana acceleration to play and activate Goblin Charbelcher, preferably on the first turn. Because the deck has two or fewer lands, one activation of Goblin Charbelcher will almost always kill the opponent.\nHulk-Flash, which is dedicated to casting Flash and putting a Protean Hulk into play and then into the graveyard, allowing the player to find a combination of creatures which will kill the opponent instantly. Summoner's Pact and Merchant Scroll are used to find the combo pieces, while Force of Will and Pact of Negation protect the combo.\nSteel City Vault, which uses \"Draw 7\" spells such as Timetwister to rapidly assemble the Time Vault-Voltaic Key combo for infinite turns. The deck also uses several cards such as Force of Will and Ancient Grudge to efficiently deal with Null Rod, the most effective answer to the Vault-Key combo.\nHexmage Depths, which uses Vampire Hexmage to inexpensively remove the counters from Dark Depths and put a flying, indestructible 20/20 creature token into play as early as the first turn.\nMidrange\nA typical midrange deck has an early game plan of mana ramp and control, but begins to play threats once it reaches four to six mana. A midrange deck will often seek to play a reactive, attrition-based game against aggro decks and a more proactive, tempo-based game against control decks. Colloquially, this is referred to as \"going bigger\" than aggro and \"getting in under\" control.\n\nExample cards: Huntmaster of the Fells Thragtusk, Sakura-Tribe Elder\nExample decks:\nJund Midrange (BRG), a powerful and flexible deck with virtually zero bad matchups thanks to the access of the most powerful cards that each color can offer: black gives Liliana of the Veil and powerful discard cards like Thoughtseize and Inquisition of Kozilek, red a reliable removal in Lightning Bolt and the green some of the best creatures like Tarmogoyf and Scavenging Ooze.\nAbzan Midrange (WBG), which is similar to Jund, but trades speed for powerful white based cards like Path to Exile, Lingering Souls and Siege Rhino.\nJeskai Midrange (UWR), which has more control elements, using Sphinx's Revelation to draw into a very large number of cards and Assemble the Legion to end up swarming the board with tokens.\nTemur Emerge (GUR), which leverages the Emerge mechanic introduced in Eldritch Moon to efficiently use ramp creatures such as Pilgrim's Eye and Primal Druid for their land-smoothing abilities while sacrificing them to Emerge board-stalling threats such as Elder Deep-Fiend as early as turn 4, also filling the graveyard to make Emrakul, the Promised End playable on turn 7.\nTron, which tries to build the triplet of lands known as \"Urzatron\" (Urza's Tower, Urza's Mine and Urza's Power Plant) as quickly as possible and then uses the massive amount of mana to play powerful cards like Karn Liberated and Wurmcoil Engine as early as turn 3.\n Question: Given a reference text about Magic the Gathering decks, please suggest cards I should consider in a Midrange deck.", "output": "You should consider Huntmaster of the Fells Thragtusk and Sakura-Tribe Elder"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The national flag of the United States of America (often referred to as the American flag, or the U.S. flag) consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red (top and bottom) alternating with white, with a blue rectangle in the canton (referred to specifically as the \"union\") bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows, where rows of six stars (top and bottom) alternate with rows of five stars. The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 U.S. states, and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence from Great Britain, and became the first states in the U.S. Nicknames for the flag include the Stars and Stripes, Old Glory, and the Star-Spangled Banner.\n Question: What is does the stars represent on the United States of America flag?", "output": "The 50 stars on the United States of America flag represent the 50 U.S. states."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: San Clemente is known for its many surfing locations, which include Trestles, Lowers, Middles & Uppers, Cotton's Point, Calafia Beach Park, Riviera, Lasuens (most often called Lost Winds), The Hole, T-Street, The Pier, Linda Lane, 204, North Beach and Poche Beach. It is also home to Surfing Magazine, The Surfer's Journal, and Longboard Magazine.\n\nThe city has a large concentration of surfboard shapers and manufacturers. Additionally, numerous world-renowned surfers were raised in San Clemente or took up long-term residence in town, including, Colin McPhillips(3 x longboard world champion), Matt Archbold, Herbie Fletcher(founder of AstroDeck), Dibi Fletcher (first female CEO of a surf company), Christian Fletcher, Nathan Fletcher, Greyson Flecther, Griffin Colapinto, Crosby Colapinto, Shane Beschen, Gavin Beschen, Chris Ward, Dino Andino, Kolohe Andino, Patrick Gudauskas, Dane Gudauskas, Tanner Gudauskas, Mike Long, Greg Long (Greg Long has dominated the XXL Global Big Wave Awards, winning 2005's 'Biggest Paddle In', 2007's 'Biggest Tow-in', 2009 and 2014's 'Ride of the Year', and the coveted 'Performer of the Year' in 2004, 2008 and 2013), Sawyer Lindblad, Jett Schilling, Kade Matson, Taj Lindblad, Hagan Johnson, Jim Hogan, Mike Parsons, Bobby Freidman, Anna Shisler, Brian Knoblock , Rich Chew, Jonathan Paskowitz, Joyce Hoffman, Bill Stewart, Matt Biolos (founder of Lost surfboards), Anastasia Ashley, Timmy Patterson, Cole Simler (Cole Surfboards), Terry Senate surfboards. Matt \"Mayhem\" Biolos and Lost Surfboards, Timmy Patterson Surfboards, Cole Simler and Cole Surfboards, Fletcher Surfboards, Terry Senate Surfboards, Jed Noll and Noll Surfboards, Matt Parker and Album Surfboards, Christian Wach and Ryan Engle of Canvas Surfboards and Nation Surfboards, \n\nSan Clemente High School has won 6 out of 7 most recent NSSA national surfing titles and is regarded as consistently one of the top surfing high schools in the world. Shorecliffs Junior High School is also regarded as the top middle school for surfers.\n Question: What city in the world is regarded as having the largest number of professional and famous surfers and surfboard shapers?", "output": "San Clemente, California in the United States is regarded by many as the top city in the world for surfing, surfboard shapers and surf culture."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A whiteboard (also known by the terms marker board, dry-erase board, dry-wipe board, and pen-board) is a glossy, usually white surface for making non-permanent markings. Whiteboards are analogous to blackboards, but with a smoother surface allowing for rapid marking and erasing of markings on their surface. The popularity of whiteboards increased rapidly in the mid-1990s and they have become a fixture in many offices, meeting rooms, school classrooms, public events and other work environments.\n\nThe term whiteboard is also used metaphorically in reference to features of computer software applications that simulate whiteboards. Such \"virtual tech whiteboards\" allow one or more people to write or draw images on a simulated canvas. This is a common feature of many virtual meeting, collaboration, and instant messaging applications. The term whiteboard is also used to refer to interactive whiteboards.\n Question: What is a whiteboard?", "output": "A whiteboard (also known by the terms marker board, dry-erase board, dry-wipe board, and pen-board) is a glossy, usually white surface for making non-permanent markings. Whiteboards are analogous to blackboards, but with a smoother surface allowing for rapid marking and erasing of markings on their surface."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: While Madrid possesses modern infrastructure, it has preserved the look and feel of many of its historic neighbourhoods and streets. Its landmarks include the Plaza Mayor, the Royal Palace of Madrid; the Royal Theatre with its restored 1850 Opera House; the Buen Retiro Park, founded in 1631; the 19th-century National Library building (founded in 1712) containing some of Spain's historical archives; many national museums, and the Golden Triangle of Art, located along the Paseo del Prado and comprising three art museums: Prado Museum, the Reina Sof\u00eda Museum, a museum of modern art, and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, which complements the holdings of the other two museums. Cibeles Palace and Fountain has become one of the monument symbols of the city.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the city of Madrid, what are the main landmarks of the city?", "output": "The main landmarks of Madrid include the Plaza Mayor, the Royal Palace, the Royal Theatre or the Retiro Park. Madrid also has many national museums, such as the Prado Museum, the Reina Sofia Museum or the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"The book explores imagination and the imaginable through the descriptions of cities by an explorer, Marco Polo. The book is framed as a conversation between the elderly and busy emperor Kublai Khan, who constantly has merchants coming to describe the state of his expanding and vast empire, and Polo. The majority of the book consists of brief prose poems describing 55 fictitious cities that are narrated by Polo, many of which can be read as parables or meditations on culture, language, time, memory, death, or the general nature of human experience.\n\nShort dialogues between Kublai and Polo are interspersed every five to ten cities discussing these topics. These interludes between the two characters are no less poetically constructed than the cities, and form a framing device that plays with the natural complexity of language and stories. In one key exchange in the middle of the book, Kublai prods Polo to tell him of the one city he has never mentioned directly\u2014h\"\n Question: Who is the protagonist in Italo Calvino's Invisible Cities?", "output": "The book explores imagination and the imaginable through the descriptions of cities by an explorer, Marco Polo."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Samuel Barry Jones (8 July 1923 \u2013 26 January 1999) was an Australian politician. He was a member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly from 1965 until 1984 and a member of the ALP.\n\nEarly life\nSamuel Barry Jones was born in Newcastle. He was the son of a steelworker and a brother of Charlie Jones. He was educated to intermediate level at Newcastle Boys' High School and trained as a fitter and turner. He was an office-holder in the Amalgamated Engineering Union.\n\nPolitical career\nSam Jones joined the Labor Party in 1945 and served as vice president and secretary of Tighes Hill branch, vice president of Newcastle and Waratah State Electorate Councils and secretary of Newcastle Federal Electorate Council.\n Question: Which party Sam Jones was part of?", "output": "Sam Jones (Samuel Barry Jones) served as vice president and secretary of the Labor Party in 1945."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Charles Inglis was the second son of Dr. Alexander Inglis (a general practitioner in Worcester) and his first wife, Florence, the daughter of newspaper proprietor John Frederick Feeney. His elder brother was the historian John Alexander Inglis FRSE Their father, Alexander Inglis was born in Scotland to a respectable family \u2013 his grandfather, John Inglis, was an Admiral in the Royal Navy and had captained HMS Belliqueux at the Battle of Camperdown in 1797.\n\nCharles Inglis was born on 31 July 1875. He was not expected to survive and was hurriedly baptised in his father's drawing room; his mother died from complications eleven days later. His family moved to Cheltenham and Inglis was schooled at Cheltenham College from 1889 to 1894. In his final year, he was elected head boy and received a scholarship to study the Mathematics Tripos at King's College, Cambridge. Inglis was 22nd wrangler[nb 1] when he received his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1897; he remained for a fourth year, achieving first class honours in Mechanical Sciences. Inglis was a keen sportsman and enjoyed long-distance running, walking, mountaineering and sailing. At Cambridge, he nearly achieved a blue for long-distance running but was forced to withdraw from a significant race because of a pulled muscle. He was also a follower of the Cambridge University Rugby Union team, watching their matches at Grange Road.\n\nAfter graduation, Inglis began work as an apprentice for the civil engineering firm of John Wolfe-Barry & Partners. He worked as a draughtsman in the drawing office for several months before being placed with Alexander Gibb, who was acting as resident engineer on an extension to the Metropolitan District Railway between Whitechapel and Bow. Inglis was responsible for the design and supervision of all thirteen bridges on the route. It was during this time that he began his lifelong study of vibration and its effects on materials, particularly bridges.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Charles Inglis, give answers to the following: his father's name, his colleague's name, and his grandfather's occupation.", "output": "Alexander Inglis, Alexander Gibb, Admiral in the Royal Navy"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Olive oil has long been a common ingredient in Mediterranean cuisine, including ancient Greek and Roman cuisine. Wild olives, which originated in Asia Minor, were collected by Neolithic people as early as the 8th millennium BC.[better source needed] Besides food, olive oil has been used for religious rituals, medicines, as a fuel in oil lamps, soap-making, and skincare application.[citation needed] The Spartans and other Greeks used oil to rub themselves while exercising in the gymnasia. From its beginnings early in the 7th century BC, the cosmetic use of olive oil quickly spread to all of the Hellenic city-states, together with athletes training in the nude, and lasted close to a thousand years despite its great expense. Olive oil was also popular as a form of birth control; Aristotle in his History of Animals recommends applying a mixture of olive oil combined with either oil of cedar, ointment of lead, or ointment of frankincense to the cervix to prevent pregnancy.\n Question: What is the history of olive oil?", "output": "Besides food, olive oil has been used for religious rituals, medicines, as a fuel in oil lamps, soap-making, and skincare applications."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Association of Baptist Churches in Ireland (ABC, ABCi and ABCI) is a Baptist Christian denomination based in Ireland. It is a group of 117 autonomous Baptist churches working together in fellowship and evangelism, training and caring ministries. The association only acts on behalf of the churches for the work which the churches have agreed to do together.\n Question: Based on this paragraph, how many churches are in the The Association of Baptist Churches in Ireland?", "output": "117"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Nothing\" is the first single by English rock band A released from their album Hi-Fi Serious. It reached number nine in the UK Singles Chart; to date, A's highest charting single. During the promotion of the single, the band appeared on Top of The Pops and the Pepsi Chart Show.\n\nThe promotional video for Nothing was filmed in Cape Town, South Africa, mostly around the Artscape Theatre Centre formerly known as the Nico Malan theatre complex, and features extras dressed in the same clothes as each band member - complete with band member masks - to create the illusion that there are hundreds of duplicates of the band.\n\n\"Nothing\" is arguably the heaviest A single, marking something of a departure from the band's usual melodic pop punk to nu metal. It is track 1 on the album Hi-Fi Serious. A live version appears on the live album, Rockin' Like Dokken.\n Question: Where was the heaviest A single filmed?", "output": "A's first hit single Nothing was filmed in Cape Town, South Africa."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Maharashtra (/m\u0259h\u0251\u02d0\u02c8r\u0251\u02d0\u0283tr\u0259/; Marathi: [m\u0259ha\u027ea\u02d0\u0282\u0288\u027e\u0259] (listen), abbr. MH or Maha) is a state in the western peninsular region of India occupying a substantial portion of the Deccan Plateau. Maharashtra is the second-most populous state in India and the second-most populous country subdivision globally. It was formed on 1 May 1960 by splitting the bilingual Bombay State, which had existed since 1956, into majority Marathi-speaking Maharashtra and Gujarati-speaking Gujarat. Maharashtra is home to the Marathi people, the predominant ethno-linguistic group, who speak the Marathi language, the official language of the state. The state is divided into 6 divisions and 36 districts, with the state capital being Mumbai, the most populous urban area in India, and Nagpur serving as the winter capital, which also hosts the winter session of the state legislature. Godavari and Krishna are the two major rivers in the state. Forests cover 16.47 per cent of the state's geographical area. Out of the total cultivable land in the state, about 60 per cent is used for grain crops in the Deccan region, rice in coastal Konkan, and other high rainfall areas.\n Question: Which is the second most populated state in India?", "output": "Maharashtra"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The European Union (EU) is a political and economic union of 27 member states that are signatories to the founding treaties of the union and thereby share in the privileges and obligations of membership.\n Question: As of 2022, how many member states make up the European Union?", "output": "27"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Obsidian can be used to make extremely sharp knives, and obsidian blades are a type of glass knife made using naturally occurring obsidian instead of manufactured glass. Obsidian is used by some surgeons[who?][example needed] for scalpel blades, although this is not approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use on humans. Well-crafted obsidian blades, like any glass knife, can have a cutting edge many times sharper than high-quality steel surgical scalpels: the cutting edge of the blade is only about three nanometers thick. All metal knives have a jagged, irregular blade when viewed under a strong enough microscope; however, obsidian blades are still smooth, even when examined under an electron microscope. One study found that obsidian incisions produced fewer inflammatory cells and less granulation tissue in a group of rats after seven days but the differences disappeared after twenty-one days. Don Crabtree has produced surgical obsidian blades and written articles on the subject. Obsidian scalpels may currently[when?] be purchased[by whom?] for surgical use on research animals.\n Question: Based on the following paragraph on the current use of obsidian, what's the difference between obsidian scalpels and steel scalpels?", "output": "Obsidian scalpels have a cutting edge that is many times sharper than a steel scalpel. In addition, obsidian scalpels have a smooth blade surface whereas all metal knifes have a jagged, irregular blade surface."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The marbled newt is typically found in habitats characterized by hilly and forestry terrain, away from open and exposed areas. Marbled newts live in temporary habitats, such as ponds, that are subject to change depending on the climate conditions of the region. When rainfall is high and the temperature is lower, typically in the fall and winter months, adult marbled newts stay in the ponds. However, these shallow ponds are subject to drought in warmer spring and summer months, which forces the marbled newts to remain on land. Due to this constant change in the habitat conditions, marbled newts have the ability to adapt to different climatic conditions and habitat changes.\n Question: Given the reference text below, what problem do Marbled newts' face?", "output": "Marbled newt is forced to remain on the land due to droughts."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Atlantic Hall is a private coeducational secondary school in Epe, Lagos State, Nigeria which holds about 600 students and is located about 70 kilometres from Lagos. It opened in 1989 in the Maryland area, Ikeja, Lagos State, with dormitories close to Eko Hospital Ikeja, before relocating to Poka Epe in the mid-nineties. Its landmark include Pobuna Junior and Senior High School with close proximity to Araga in Epe.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Atlantic Hall in Nigeria, how many students does it hold, where is located and when did it open?", "output": "Atlantic Hall can hold 600 students, is located 70 kilometers from Lagos and was opened in 1989."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Nnedimma Nkemdili Okorafor was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, in 1974 to Igbo Nigerian parents who travelled to America in 1969 to attend school but purportedly could not return to Nigeria due to the Nigerian Civil War. Okorafor is the third child in a family of four children and grew up in Chicago, Illinois, and would often travel to Nigeria to spend her holidays with her extended family. Her first name is Igbo for \"mother is good\".\n Question: What is the meaning of \"Nnedi\" in Nnedi Okarafor's name?", "output": "\"Nnedi\" is the short form of her full name \"Nnedimma\" which translates to \"mother is good\", in Nigerian Igbo language."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Endpoints are important aspects of interacting with server-side web APIs, as they specify where resources lie that can be accessed by third party software. Usually the access is via a URI to which HTTP requests are posted, and from which the response is thus expected. Web APIs may be public or private, the latter of which requires an access token.\n\nEndpoints need to be static, otherwise the correct functioning of software that interacts with it cannot be guaranteed. If the location of a resource changes (and with it the endpoint) then previously written software will break, as the required resource can no longer be found at the same place. As API providers still want to update their web APIs, many have introduced a versioning system in the URI that points to an endpoint.\n Question: What is an API endpoint?", "output": "Endpoints specify where resources lie that can be accessed by third party software. Clients use endpoints to interact with server-side web APIs."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tesla, Inc. is an American multinational automotive and clean energy company headquartered in Austin, Texas. Tesla designs and manufactures electric vehicles (electric cars and trucks), battery energy storage from home to grid-scale, solar panels and solar roof tiles, and related products and services. Tesla is one of the world's most valuable companies and is, as of 2023, the world's most valuable automaker. In 2021, the company had the most worldwide sales of battery electric vehicles and plug-in electric vehicles, capturing 21% of the battery-electric (purely electric) market and 14% of the plug-in market (which includes plug-in hybrids). Through its subsidiary Tesla Energy, the company develops and is a major installer of photovoltaic systems in the United States. Tesla Energy is also one of the largest global suppliers of battery energy storage systems, with 3.99 gigawatt-hours (GWh) installed in 2021.\n Question: Where is Tesla, Inc. headquarters?", "output": "Austin, Texas"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: On Wednesday, September 25, 1974, the race started. It began with a run of a 4.8 km (3 mi) loop, followed by biking twice around Fiesta Island for a total of 8.0 km (5 mi). Entrants would then get off the bikes, take their shoes off and run into the water to swim to the mainland. That was followed by running in bare feet, then swimming again along the bay, then one last swim up to the entrance of Fiesta Island, and a final crawl up a steep dirt bank to finish. Most participants were not skilled swimmers, so Johnstone recruited his 13-year-old son to float on his surfboard and act as lifeguard. Some participants took longer than expected, and it began to get dark as they finished their swims. Shanahan recalls they pulled up a few cars and turned on the headlights so the athletes could see. Johnstone and Shanahan were surprised by the large number of entrants (46), mainly coming from local running clubs. Two notable entrants, Judy and John Collins, would four years later found the event which brought international attention to the new sport: the Hawaii Ironman\n Question: Given this paragraph about triathlon, who founded ironman", "output": "Ironman was founded by Judy and John Collins four years after the first known modern day triathlon on Wednesday, September 25th, 1974."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Edmund Selous started as a conventional naturalist, but developed a hatred of the killing of animals for scientific study and was a pioneer of bird-watching as a method of scientific study. He was a strong proponent of non-destructive bird-study as opposed to the collection of skins and eggs.\n Question: Given this paragraph, what method of scientific study did Edmund Selous champion?", "output": "Edmund Selous was a pioneer of bird-watching as a method of scientific study."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: St. John the Baptist, Blackrock is a Roman Catholic church in the parish of Blackrock, Ireland. The church is still in use and named after the Saint John the Baptist. It is located on Temple Road, Blackrock, County Dublin.\n\nThe church was designed by the architect Patrick Byrne, who was educated at the Dublin Society Schools. It is one of the finest examples of the Gothic revival style in Ireland and was the first to be built in the Dublin Archdiocese. It is said to be inspired by the ideas of Augustus Welby Pugin (1812-1852).\n\nThe initial building consisted of the nave, chancel and bell tower. To the rear of the church, two carved heads can be seen up high on either side of the rose window. The head on the left depicts St. John the Baptist, while the head on the right depicts the Archbishop Daniel Murray.\n Question: Who designed the St. John the Baptist, Blackrock church?", "output": "Patrick Byrne"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jupiter is the fifth planet from the Sun and the largest in the Solar System. It is a gas giant with a mass more than two and a half times that of all the other planets in the Solar System combined, and slightly less than one one-thousandth the mass of the Sun. Jupiter is the third brightest natural object in the Earth's night sky after the Moon and Venus, and it has been observed since prehistoric times. It was named after Jupiter, the chief deity of ancient Roman religion.\n Question: What is the biggest planet from the solar system?", "output": "Jupiter is the largest plant in the Solar system with a surface of 120 times the earth"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Dominik Volek (born January 12, 1994) is a Czech professional ice hockey player. He is currently playing for HC Sparta Praha of the Czech Extraliga.\n\nVolek made his Czech Extraliga debut playing with HC Sparta Praha during the 2014\u201315 Czech Extraliga season. Volek is the son of former New York Islanders forward David Volek.\n Question: How old was Dominik Volek when he made his Czech Extraliga debut?", "output": "Dominik Volek was 20 years old. He debuted in 2014 and was born in 1994, so 2014-1994 = 20."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Zoom Video Communications, Inc. (commonly shortened to Zoom, and stylized as zoom) is a communications technology company headquartered in San Jose, California. It provides videotelephony and online chat services through a cloud-based peer-to-peer software platform used for video communications (Meetings), messaging (Chat), voice calls (Phone), conference rooms for video meetings (Rooms), virtual events (Events) and contact centers (Contact Center), and offers an open platform allowing third-party developers to build custom applications on its unified communications platform (Developer Platform). The company was founded in 2011 by Eric Yuan, a former Cisco engineer and executive. It launched its software in 2013.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Zoom, where is the company based and when was the Zoom software released?", "output": "Zoom Video Communications, Inc is based in San Jose, California. The software launched by the company was released in 2013."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Brazilian jiu-jitsu was initially developed in 1925 by Brazilian brothers Carlos, Oswaldo, Gast\u00e3o Jr., George, and H\u00e9lio Gracie, after Carlos was taught jiu-jitsu by a travelling Japanese judoka, Mitsuyo Maeda, who himself mastered his ground fighting while interacting with Taro Miyake (Tanabe student), Sadakazu Uyenishi (Handa, Tanabe) and Yukio Tani (Tenjin Shinyo-ryu) and catch wrestlers in Europe. Later on, the Gracie family developed their own self-defense system, and published Gracie Jiu-Jitsu.\n Question: Which martial art or arts did Brazilian jiu-jitsu derive from?", "output": "Brazilian jiu-jitsu was derived from judo and catch wrestling."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Queen Isabella Memorial Bridge was developed as a concrete pier-and-beam bridge with a steel cantilever main beam span. The memorial bridge has a travel distance of 2.5 miles (4.0 km) and sustains the continuation of Texas Park Road 100. The watercourse thoroughfare is located in southern Cameron County, Texas and is the only road connecting South Padre Island to the geography of Texas.\n\nThe Causeway opened in 1974 and replaced the previous bridge, which had also been named Queen Isabella Causeway. A central section of the original causeway was removed and renamed the Queen Isabella State Fishing Pier. The Causeway is the second-longest bridge in Texas, stretching 2.37 miles (3.81 km) across the Laguna Madre. It is named after Queen Isabella of Castile\n Question: Given a reference text about the Queen Isabella Memorial Bridge, tell me how long it is and when it opened.", "output": "The Queen Isabella Memorial Bridge opened in 1974 and is 2.5 miles long."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The amount of heat energy received at any location on the globe is a direct effect of Sun angle on climate, as the angle at which sunlight strikes Earth varies by location, time of day, and season due to Earth's orbit around the Sun and Earth's rotation around its tilted axis. Seasonal change in the angle of sunlight, caused by the tilt of Earth's axis, is the basic mechanism that results in warmer weather in summer than in winter.Change in day length is another factor.\n\nPresents a case when sunlight shines on Earth at a lower angle (Sun closer to the horizon), the energy of the sunlight is spread over a larger area, and is therefore weaker than if the Sun is higher overhead and the energy is concentrated on a smaller area.\n Question: Why is the sun more intense at high altitude", "output": "It's commonly known that the sun is more intense at higher altitudes. However, contrary to popular belief, the sun is not more intense due to being closer to the sun, but the angle of incidence of the sun. The angle of incidence is steeper, and therefore the density of the sun's  radiant energy is concentrated to a high density in a smaller area. This makes the sun's energy more intense"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jelly Roll is married to Bunnie DeFord aka Bunnie XO and has two children from a previous relationship.\n Question: By what other name does Bunnie DeFord go by?", "output": "Bunnie XO"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A minimum spanning tree (MST) or minimum weight spanning tree is a subset of the edges of a connected, edge-weighted undirected graph that connects all the vertices together, without any cycles and with the minimum possible total edge weight. That is, it is a spanning tree whose sum of edge weights is as small as possible. More generally, any edge-weighted undirected graph (not necessarily connected) has a minimum spanning forest, which is a union of the minimum spanning trees for its connected components.\n\nThere are many use cases for minimum spanning trees. One example is a telecommunications company trying to lay cable in a new neighborhood. If it is constrained to bury the cable only along certain paths (e.g. roads), then there would be a graph containing the points (e.g. houses) connected by those paths. Some of the paths might be more expensive, because they are longer, or require the cable to be buried deeper; these paths would be represented by edges with larger weights. Currency is an acceptable unit for edge weight \u2013 there is no requirement for edge lengths to obey normal rules of geometry such as the triangle inequality. A spanning tree for that graph would be a subset of those paths that has no cycles but still connects every house; there might be several spanning trees possible. A minimum spanning tree would be one with the lowest total cost, representing the least expensive path for laying the cable.\n Question: Based on the text provided, what does a minimum spanning tree optimize?", "output": "A minimum spanning tree optimizes the a graph in a way that minimizes the sum of all the weights of the edges"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Haile Selassie I (Ge'ez: \u1240\u12f3\u121b\u12ca \u1280\u12ed\u1208 \u1225\u120b\u1234, romanized: Q\u00e4damawi H\u00e4yl\u00e4 S\u0259llas\u00e9,[nb 2] Amharic pronunciation: [\u02c8ha\u026al\u0259 s\u0268l\u02c8lase] (listen);[nb 3] born Tafari Makonnen; 23 July 1892 \u2013 27 August 1975) was Emperor of Ethiopia from 1930 to 1974. He rose to power as Regent Plenipotentiary of Ethiopia (Enderase) for Empress Zewditu from 1916. Haile Selassie is widely considered a defining figure in modern Ethiopian history, and the key figure of Rastafari, a religious movement in Jamaica that emerged shortly after he became emperor in the 1930s. He was a member of the Solomonic dynasty, which claims to trace lineage to Emperor Menelik I, believed to be the son of King Solomon and Makeda the Queen of Sheba.\n Question: who is Haile Sellassie?", "output": "Haile Selassie (Amharic: \u1240\u12f3\u121b\u12ca \u1280\u12ed\u1208 \u1225\u120b\u1234) was a former Emperor of Ethiopia. He ruled the country from 1930 to 1974.  His first name before he became emperor was Ras Teferi Mekonnen. The religion movement, Rastafari, after the name of Ras Teferi Mekonnen, emerged in Jamaica shortly after Haile Selassie became emperor.  His root is from an extended Solomon and Queen of Sheba(Makeda)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1642 he travelled to Nagasaki as a trader in Chinese medicine, and in 1644 entered Kofukuji Temple, becoming its 3rd abbot in 1645. Established by monks immigrated from China, the temple was then a base of the \u014cbaku school of Zen Buddhism in Japan. In 1654 after multiple requests he succeeded in persuading Yinyuan Longqi (Ingen Ryuki), the 33rd abbot of Wanfu Temple (Mount Huangbo, Fujian) to emigrate to Japan, where he founded \u014cbaku, the third and final major Japanese Zen sect.\n Question: per this reference of Itsunen Shoyu, who did he convince to bring Zen Buddhism to Japan?", "output": "Yinyuan Longqi (Ingen Ryuki) the 33rd abbot of Wanfu Temple"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Russell begins by asserting that the standard model of AI research, in which the primary definition of success is getting better and better at achieving rigid human-specified goals, is dangerously misguided. Such goals may not actually reflect what human designers intend, such as by failing to take into account any human values not included in the goals. If an AI developed according to the standard model were to become superintelligent, it would likely not fully reflect human values and could be catastrophic to humanity. Russell asserts that precisely because the timeline for developing human-level or superintelligent AI is highly uncertain, safety research should be begun as soon as possible, as it is also highly uncertain how long it would take to complete such research.\n\nRussell argues that continuing progress in AI capability is inevitable because of economic pressures. Such pressures can already be seen in the development of existing AI technologies such as self-driving cars and personal assistant software. Moreover, human-level AI could be worth many trillions of dollars. Russell then examines the current debate surrounding AI risk. He offers refutations to a number of common arguments dismissing AI risk and attributes much of their persistence to tribalism\u2014AI researchers may see AI risk concerns as an \"attack\" on their field. Russell reiterates that there are legitimate reasons to take AI risk concerns seriously and that economic pressures make continued innovation in AI inevitable.\n\nRussell then proposes an approach to developing provably beneficial machines that focuses on deference to humans. Unlike in the standard model of AI, where the objective is rigid and certain, this approach would have the AI's true objective remain uncertain, with the AI only approaching certainty about it as it gains more information about humans and the world. This uncertainty would, ideally, prevent catastrophic misunderstandings of human preferences and encourage cooperation and communication with humans. Russell concludes by calling for tighter governance of AI research and development as well as cultural introspection about the appropriate amount of autonomy to retain in an AI-dominated world.\n Question: Given the following summary of the book \"Human Compatible\" by Stuart Russell, what is the author's proposal to overcome the limitations of the standard approach for developing AI?", "output": "Russell suggests that the AIs should be trained in a way that makes them gradually gain knowledge of what is truly beneficial to humans. AIs developed in this fashion would cooperate with humans while leaving them with a high enough level of autonomy."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The C40 went on to win 5 editions of Paris-Roubaix in 6 years. Surpringly, the victory of Tadej Poga\u010dar in the 2020 edition of the Tour de France marked the first time a Colnago-branded bicycle was ridden by the overall classification winner, since Merckx's victories were aboard re-branded bikes.\n Question: Given the paragraph about the Colnago C40, in which year was a Colnago-branded bicycle first ridden by the overall classification winner in the Tour de France?", "output": "2020 was the first year a Colnago-branded bicycle was first ridden by the overall classification winner in the Tour de France."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ballspielverein Borussia 09 e. V. Dortmund, commonly known as Borussia Dortmund (German pronunciation: [bo\u02c8\u0281\u028asi\u032fa\u02d0 \u02c8d\u0254\u0250\u032ftm\u028ant] (listen)), BVB (pronounced [be\u02d0fa\u028a\u032f\u02c8be\u02d0] (listen)), or simply Dortmund (pronounced [\u02c8d\u0254\u0281tm\u028ant] (listen)), is a German professional sports club based in Dortmund, North Rhine-Westphalia. It is best known for its men's professional football team, which plays in the Bundesliga, the top tier of the German football league system. The club have won eight league championships, five DFB-Pokals, one UEFA Champions League, one Intercontinental Cup, and one UEFA Cup Winners' Cup.\n\nFounded in 1909 by eighteen football players from Dortmund, the football team is part of a large membership-based sports club with more than 145,000 members, making Borussia Dortmund the second largest sports club by membership in Germany. The club has active departments in other sports, namely in women's handball. Since 1974, Dortmund have played their home games at Westfalenstadion; the stadium is the largest in Germany, and Dortmund has the highest average attendance of any association football club in the world.\n Question: Tell me when did the Borussia Dortmund found?", "output": "Founded in 1909"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: SM U-30[Note 1] was one of 329 U-boat submarines serving in the Imperial German Navy in World War I. She engaged in commerce warfare as part of the First Battle of the Atlantic. U-30 is significant for the torpedoing of the US tanker Gulflight on 1 May 1915 20 nautical miles (37 km; 23 mi) west of Scilly.\n Question: What kind of u-boat was the SM U-30", "output": "SM U-30 was one of 329 U-boat submarines serving in the Imperial German Navy in World War I. She engaged in commerce warfare as part of the First Battle of the Atlantic. U-30 is significant for the torpedoing of the US tanker Gulflight on 1 May 1915 20 nautical miles (37 km; 23 mi) west of Scilly."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Charlestown is the oldest neighborhood in Boston, Massachusetts, in the United States. Originally called Mishawum by the Massachusett tribe, it is located on a peninsula north of the Charles River, across from downtown Boston, and also adjoins the Mystic River and Boston Harbor waterways. Charlestown was laid out in 1629 by engineer Thomas Graves, one of its earliest settlers, during the reign of Charles I of England. It was originally a separate town and the first capital of the Massachusetts Bay Colony.\n\nCharlestown became a city in 1848 and was annexed by Boston on January 5, 1874. With that, it also switched from Middlesex County, to which it had belonged since 1643, to Suffolk County. It has had a substantial Irish-American population since the migration of Irish people during the Great Irish Famine of the 1840s. Since the late 1980s, the neighborhood has changed dramatically because of its proximity to downtown and its colonial architecture. A mix of yuppie and upper-middle-class gentrification has influenced much of the area, as it has in many of Boston's neighborhoods, but Charlestown still maintains a strong Irish-American population.\n\nIn the 21st century, Charlestown's diversity has expanded dramatically, along with growing rates of the very poor and very wealthy. Today Charlestown is a largely residential neighborhood, with much housing near the waterfront, overlooking the Boston skyline. Charlestown is home to many historic sites, hospitals and organizations, with access from the Orange Line Sullivan Square or Community College stops or the I-93 expressway.\n Question: What is the oldest part of Boston to live in, based on the historic neighborhood?", "output": "Charlestown, Massachusetts"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A swim brief or racing brief is any briefs-style male swimsuit such as those worn in competitive swimming, diving and water polo. The popularity of the Australian Speedo brand racing brief has led to the use of its name in many countries around the world to refer to any racing brief, regardless of the maker. Occasionally, the speedo genericized trademark is applied to square cut swimsuits,[citation needed] but in general the generic term is used in reference to swimming briefs. Swim briefs are also referred to as competition briefs, swimming trunks, bathers, togs, racer bathers, posing briefs, racing briefs, and colloquially in Australia, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom as \"budgie smugglers\".\n\nLike underwear briefs, swim briefs feature a triangular shaped front and a solid back providing form-fitting coverage. They typically are worn below the lower waist. They are generally secured by thin banding at the upper thighs, and a drawstring around the waist and/or an elastic waistband. Swim briefs are often made of a nylon and spandex (Lycra) composite, while some longer-lasting suits are made from polyester and still others from other materials. Most swim briefs have a beige or white front lining made of a similar fabric.\n Question: Given the paragraph, what is the term budgie smuggler colloquially use to describe?", "output": "In Australia, New Zealand and United Kingdom a \"budgie smuggler\" is used to describe a swimming brief"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A glass ceiling is a metaphor usually applied to women, used to represent an invisible barrier that prevents a given demographic from rising beyond a certain level in a hierarchy. No matter how invisible the glass ceiling is expressed, it is actually a difficult obstacle to overcome. The metaphor was first used by feminists in reference to barriers in the careers of high-achieving women. It was coined by Marilyn Loden during a speech in 1978. In the United States, the concept is sometimes extended to refer to racial inequality in the United States. Minority women in white-majority countries often find the most difficulty in \"breaking the glass ceiling\" because they lie at the intersection of two historically marginalized groups: women and people of color. East Asian and East Asian American news outlets have coined the term \"bamboo ceiling\" to refer to the obstacles that all East Asian Americans face in advancing their careers. Similarly, a multitude of barriers that refugees and asylum seekers face in their search for meaningful employment is referred to as canvas ceiling.\n Question: Surely, the glass ceiling only applies to politics. Corporate organizations are fine. Is that true?", "output": "No, this is incorrect. The glass ceiling affects all facet of life with hierarchical structure, such as political and career advancements."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Peter Yanowitz (born September 13, 1967, Chicago, Illinois, United States), also known as Pedro Yanowitz, is an American musician, songwriter, and visual artist. Yanowitz was the original drummer of The Wallflowers, and for Natalie Merchant on her first three solo records Tigerlily, Ophelia, and Live in Concert. He also played drums for Money Mark, the Black Sabbath tribute band Hand of Doom with Melissa Auf der Maur, and with Nina Nastasia, on her album Dogs. Other artists Yanowitz has played drums with include: Yoko Ono, Allen Ginsberg, and Wilco . Yanowitz was also the bass player, songwriter, and producer for the band Morningwood. Currently, Yanowitz is the drummer of Exclamation Pony with Ryan Jarman, peter also performed as 'Schlatko', the drummer of The Angry Inch in the Tony award winning Broadway musical Hedwig and the Angry Inch, starring Neil Patrick Harris, Andrew Rannells, Michael C. Hall, John Cameron Mitchell, Darren Criss, and Taye Diggs.\n Question: Which musical instrument does Peter Yanowitz play?", "output": "Drums"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Swami Vivekananda (/\u02c8sw\u0251\u02d0mi \u02ccv\u026ave\u026a\u02c8k\u0251\u02d0n\u0259nd\u0259/; Bengali: [\u0283ami bibekan\u0254ndo] (listen); 12 January 1863 \u2013 4 July 1902), born Narendranath Datta (Bengali: [n\u0254rendronat\u02b0 d\u0254to]), was an Indian Hindu monk, philosopher, author, religious teacher, and the chief disciple of the Indian mystic Sri Ramakrishna Paramahansa. He was a key figure in the introduction of Vedanta and Yoga to the Western world and is credited with raising interfaith awareness, and bringing Hinduism to the status of a major world religion. Vivekananda became a popular figure after the 1893 Parliament of Religions in Chicago, where he began his famous speech with the words, \"Sisters and brothers of America...,\" before introducing Hinduism to Americans. He was so impactful at the Parliament that an American newspaper described him as \u201can orator by divine right and undoubtedly the greatest figure at the Parliament\u201d. After great success at the Parliament, in the subsequent years, Vivekananda delivered hundreds of lectures across the United States, England and Europe, disseminating the core tenets of Hindu philosophy, and founded the Vedanta Society of New York and the Vedanta Society of San Francisco (now Vedanta Society of Northern California), both of which became the foundations for Vedanta Societies in the West.\n\nIn 1881, Narendra first met Ramakrishna, who became his spiritual focus after his own father had died in 1884.\n\nNarendra's first introduction to Ramakrishna occurred in a literature class at General Assembly's Institution when he heard Professor William Hastie lecturing on William Wordsworth's poem, The Excursion. While explaining the word \"trance\" in the poem, Hastie suggested that his students visit Ramakrishna of Dakshineswar to understand the true meaning of trance. This prompted some of his students (including Narendra) to visit Ramakrishna.\n\nThey probably first met personally in November 1881,[note 1] though Narendra did not consider this their first meeting, and neither man mentioned this meeting later. At this time, Narendra was preparing for his upcoming F. A. examination, when Ram Chandra Datta accompanied him to Surendra Nath Mitra's, house where Ramakrishna was invited to deliver a lecture. According to Makarand Paranjape, at this meeting Ramakrishna asked young Narendra to sing. Impressed by his singing talent, he asked Narendra to come to Dakshineshwar.\n\nIn late 1881 or early 1882, Narendra went to Dakshineswar with two friends and met Ramakrishna. This meeting proved to be a turning point in his life. Although he did not initially accept Ramakrishna as his teacher and rebelled against his ideas, he was attracted by his personality and began to frequently visit him at Dakshineswar. He initially saw Ramakrishna's ecstasies and visions as \"mere figments of imagination\" and \"hallucinations\". As a member of Brahmo Samaj, he opposed idol worship, polytheism and Ramakrishna's worship of Kali. He even rejected the Advaita Vedanta of \"identity with the absolute\" as blasphemy and madness, and often ridiculed the idea. Narendra tested Ramakrishna, who faced his arguments patiently: \"Try to see the truth from all angles\", he replied.\n\nNarendra's father's sudden death in 1884 left the family bankrupt; creditors began demanding the repayment of loans, and relatives threatened to evict the family from their ancestral home. Narendra, once a son of a well-to-do family, became one of the poorest students in his college. He unsuccessfully tried to find work and questioned God's existence, but found solace in Ramakrishna and his visits to Dakshineswar increased.\n\nOne day, Narendra requested Ramakrishna to pray to goddess Kali for their family's financial welfare. Ramakrishna instead suggested him to go to the temple himself and pray. Following Ramakrishna's suggestion, he went to the temple thrice, but failed to pray for any kind of worldly necessities and ultimately prayed for true knowledge and devotion from the goddess. Narendra gradually grew ready to renounce everything for the sake of realising God, and accepted Ramakrishna as his Guru.\n\nIn 1885, Ramakrishna developed throat cancer, and was transferred to Calcutta and (later) to a garden house in Cossipore. Narendra and Ramakrishna's other disciples took care of him during his last days, and Narendra's spiritual education continued. At Cossipore, he experienced Nirvikalpa samadhi. Narendra and several other disciples received ochre robes from Ramakrishna, forming his first monastic order. He was taught that service to men was the most effective worship of God. Ramakrishna asked him to care of the other monastic disciples, and in turn asked them to see Narendra as their leader. Ramakrishna died in the early-morning hours of 16 August 1886 in Cossipore.\n Question: Who asked Swami Vivekananda to come to Dakshineswar and in which year?", "output": "In 1881, Sri Ramakrishna Paramahansa asked Swami Vivekananda to come to Dakshineswar"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The greater blue-ringed octopus (Hapalochlaena lunulata) is one of four species of extremely venomous blue-ringed octopuses belonging to the family Octopodidae. This particular species of blue-ringed octopus is known as one of the most toxic marine animals in the world.\n Question: How many arms does Hapalochlaena lunulata have?", "output": "Hapalochlaena lunulata is an octopus, so it must have eight arms."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Annapolis (/\u0259\u02c8n\u00e6p\u0259l\u026as/ (listen) \u0259-NAP-\u0259-lis) is the capital city of the U.S. state of Maryland and the county seat of, and only incorporated city in, Anne Arundel County. Situated on the Chesapeake Bay at the mouth of the Severn River, 25 miles (40 km) south of Baltimore and about 30 miles (50 km) east of Washington, D.C., Annapolis forms part of the Baltimore\u2013Washington metropolitan area. The 2020 census recorded its population as 40,812, an increase of 6.3% since 2010.\n Question: Annapolis is the capital city of which state?", "output": "Annapolis is the capital city of Maryland."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Bichon Fris\u00e9 is often depicted as a French dog. Although the Bichon breed type are originally Spanish, used as sailing dogs, also as herding dogs sometimes, the French developed them into a gentle lap-dog variety. The Bichon type arose from the water dogs, and is descended from the poodle-type dogs and either the Barbet or one of the water spaniel class of breeds.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Bichon Fris\u00e9,  where did this dog breed originate?", "output": "The Bichon breed type are originally Spanish. The French developed them into a lap-dog variety, and thus the Bichon Fris\u00e9 is often depicted as a French dog."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: One major festival is that of the Feast of the Holy Cross, which dates back far into the colonial period. It has a community cross made from basalt called the \u201cCruz de Huaquechula\u201d which is incrusted with various relics related to the original cross of Christ. It is said to be so heavy that it cannot be lifted unless the bearers pray and the church plays a special melody on its bells. The festival lasts nine days beginning in April ending on May 3, with mass, traditional dance, food and music played by bands playing wind instruments, and fireworks set off from large frames in the shape bulls. The event has been named part of the Cultural Heritage of Puebla. During this event, traditional festive wear such as that of the charro and the China Poblana can be seen.\n Question: Here is some reference information about Huaquechula, When does the feast of the Holy Cross in Huaquechula start?", "output": "April 25th.  It ends on May 3rd, and lasts 9 days."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A poppy is a flowering plant in the subfamily Papaveroideae of the family Papaveraceae. Poppies are herbaceous plants, often grown for their colourful flowers. One species of poppy, Papaver somniferum, is the source of the narcotic drug mixture opium which contains powerful medicinal alkaloids such as morphine and has been used since ancient times as an analgesic and narcotic medicinal and recreational drug. It also produces edible seeds. Following the trench warfare in the poppy fields of Flanders, Belgium during World War I, poppies have become a symbol of remembrance of soldiers who have died during wartime, especially in the UK, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and other Commonwealth realms.\n Question: What is the significance of a poppy on Remembrance day?", "output": "Following the trench warfare in the poppy fields of Flanders, Belgium during World War I, poppies have become a symbol of remembrance of soldiers who have died during wartime, especially in the UK, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and other Commonwealth countries."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Istv\u00e1n Szalay (22 March 1944 \u2013 1 September 2022) was a Hungarian mathematician and politician. A member of the Hungarian Socialist Party, he served in the National Assembly from 1998 to 2002. Prior to that, he was mayor of Szeged from 1994 to 1998.\n\nSzalay died on 1 September 2022, at the age of 78.\n Question: What is Szalay doing these days?", "output": "Sadly, Istv\u00e1n Szalay passed away on 1 September 2022, at the age of 78. And hence to answer your question, he is dead and does't exists anymore."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sly and the Family Stone was an American funk rock band originated from San Francisco, California. Active from 1966 to 1983, they were pivotal in the development of funk, soul, rock, and psychedelic music. Their core line-up was led by singer-songwriter, record producer, and multi-instrumentalist Sly Stone, and included Stone's brother and singer/guitarist Freddie Stone, sister and singer/keyboardist Rose Stone, trumpeter Cynthia Robinson, drummer Greg Errico, saxophonist Jerry Martini, and bassist Larry Graham. The band was the first major American rock group to have a racially integrated, male and female lineup.\n Question: Where did Sly and the Family Stone come from?", "output": "Sly and the Family Stone originated from San Francisco, California."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A druid was a member of the high-ranking class in ancient Celtic cultures. Druids were religious leaders as well as legal authorities, adjudicators, lorekeepers, medical professionals and political advisors. Druids left no written accounts. While they were reported to have been literate, they are believed to have been prevented by doctrine from recording their knowledge in written form. Their beliefs and practices are attested in some detail by their contemporaries from other cultures, such as the Romans and the Greeks.\n Question: What is a Druid?", "output": "A druid was a member of the high-ranking class in ancient Celtic cultures."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ted Lasso is an American sports comedy-drama television series developed by Jason Sudeikis, Bill Lawrence, Brendan Hunt and Joe Kelly, based on a character Sudeikis first portrayed in a series of promos for NBC Sports' coverage of England's Premier League. The show follows Ted Lasso, an American college football coach who is hired to coach an English soccer team with the secret intention that his inexperience will lead it to failure, but whose folksy, optimistic leadership proves unexpectedly successful.\n Question: Who is Ted Lasso in the eponymous TV show?", "output": "The show follows Ted Lasso, an American college football coach who is hired to coach an English soccer team with the secret intention that his inexperience will lead it to failure,"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In ancient Greek religion and mythology, Artemis (/\u02c8\u0251\u02d0rt\u026am\u026as/; Greek: \u1f0c\u03c1\u03c4\u03b5\u03bc\u03b9\u03c2) is the goddess of the hunt, the wilderness, wild animals, nature, vegetation, childbirth, care of children, and chastity. She was heavily identified with Selene, the personification of the Moon, and Hecate, another lunar deity, and was thus regarded as one of the most prominent lunar deities in mythology, alongside the aforementioned two. She would often roam the forests of Greece, attended by her large entourage, mostly made up of nymphs, some mortals, and hunters. The goddess Diana is her Roman equivalent.\n Question: Who is Artemis?", "output": "In Greek mythology, Artemis is the goddess of hunt, wild animals and vegetation."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The plan specified that most streets would be laid out in a grid. To form the grid, some streets (later named for letters of the alphabet) would travel in an east\u2013west direction, while others (named for numbers) would travel in a north\u2013south direction. Broader diagonal grand avenues, later named after the states of the Union, crossed the north\u2013south-east/west grid. These \"grand avenues\" intersected with the north\u2013south and east\u2013west streets at circles and rectangular plazas that would later honor notable Americans and provide open space.\n Question: Who designed Washington D.C. and what are some interesting attributes about the city?", "output": "Washington DC was designed by Major Pierre Charles L'Enfant at the request of George Washington.  L'Enfant was a civil engineer by training, from France, and based his basic design for DC on the streets of Paris.  DC is laid out as a grid, with east-west streets named alphabetically, starting with the letters themselves, and adding syllables as the streets went further out from the city center.  The north-south streets are numbered, increasing as they radiate from the Capitol.  At the intersection of the center-most streets are named for the direction as they radiate from the Capitol, i.e. North Capitol.  However, there is no West Capitol street, as that is the prominent plazas known as the mall.  Diagonally across the grid are streets named after the states and those state streets intersect in circles named after prominent Americans with plazas and open spaces."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Quest of the Ancients is an independent role-playing game published in the late 1980s by Unicorn Game Publications. It is mainly a Dungeons & Dragons clone, in that it was character class- and level-based, used a Dungeon & Dragons style Vancian Magic system, and used a skill system similar to the Advanced Dungeons & Dragons thief skill system. Most notably, it used a thirty sided die (or d30) for combat resolution. Written by Vince Garcia of Fresno, California, the game system implements a large number of character classes.\n Question: What device is used to resolve combat outcomes in Quest of the Ancients?", "output": "A thirty sided die (or d30) is used for combat resolution."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Shakira Isabel Mebarak Ripoll (/\u0283\u0259\u02c8k\u026a\u0259r\u0259/ sh\u0259-KEER-\u0259, Spanish: [(t)\u0283a\u02c8ki\u027ea]; born 2 February 1977) is a Colombian singer and songwriter. Born and raised in Barranquilla, she has been referred to as the \"Queen of Latin Music\" and is noted for her musical versatility. She made her recording debut with Sony Music Colombia at the age of 13. Following the commercial failure of her first two albums, Magia (1991) and Peligro (1993), she rose to prominence in Hispanic countries with her next albums, Pies Descalzos (1995) and D\u00f3nde Est\u00e1n los Ladrones? (1998). She entered the English-language market with her fifth album, Laundry Service (2001), which sold over 13 million copies worldwide. Buoyed by the international success of her singles \"Whenever, Wherever\" and \"Underneath Your Clothes\", the album propelled her reputation as a leading crossover artist. Broadcast Music, Inc., described Shakira as a \"pioneer\" who extended the global reach of Latino singers.\n Question: Based on this paragraph about a singer, where was Shakira born?", "output": "Barranquilla, Colombia"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pwoj\u00e8 Pyebwa (Tree Project) is a tree-planting project in Haiti. It was designed, implemented, and initially run by cultural anthropologists. Different from reforestation projects, Pwoj\u00e8 Pyebwa promoted agroforestry\u2014the strategic mixing of crops, trees, and animals. The agroforestry project in Haiti project was funded by the United States Agency for International Development USAID, but implemented through the Pan American Development Organization (PADF) and CARE. It was originally called the Agroforestry Outreach Project (AOP). The original project spanned a decade (1981\u20131991), but policies from Pwoj\u00e8 Pyebwa continued to direct PADF tree-planting through a second decade (1992 to 2000).\n\nThe project was executed throughout the country. Based on Haitian farmers\u2019 voluntary and widespread participation, the project has been deemed a success by many. Pwoj\u00e8 Pyebwa distributed free trees to farmers, and advised on the incorporation of trees into existing cropping arrangements based on anthropological research into the land tenure, agricultural systems, and the historical market-orientation of Haitian peasant farmers. The project eventually won the Praxis prize in applied anthropology. It is estimated that the project involved one-third of the entire rural Haitian population. Approximately 65 million trees were planted.\n Question: Given a reference text about Pwoj\u00e8 Pyebwa, who funded the project?", "output": "Pwoj\u00e8 Pyebwa was funded by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The wraparound process is an intensive, individualized care management process for youths with serious or complex needs. Wraparound was initially developed in the 1980s as a means for maintaining youth with the most serious emotional and behavioral problems in their home and community. During the wraparound process, a team of individuals who are relevant to the well-being of the child or youth (e.g., family members, other natural supports, service providers, and agency representatives) collaboratively develop an individualized plan of care, implement this plan, and evaluate success over time. The wraparound plan typically includes formal services and interventions, together with community services and interpersonal support and assistance provided by friends, kin, and other people drawn from the family's social networks. The team convenes frequently to measure the plan's components against relevant indicators of success. Plan components and strategies are revised when outcomes are not being achieved.\n\nThe process of engaging the family, convening the team, developing the plan, implementing the plan, and transitioning the youth out of formal wraparound is typically facilitated by a trained care manager or \u201cwraparound facilitator,\u201d sometimes with the assistance of a family support worker. The wraparound process, and the plan itself, is designed to be culturally competent, strengths based, and organized around family members\u2019 own perceptions of needs, goals, and likelihood of success of specific strategies.\n Question: Given a reference text about the wraparound process, tell me what is included in a wraparound plan.", "output": "A wraparound plan usually includes formal services and interventions along with community services and interpersonal support."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A zoo (short for zoological garden; also called an animal park or menagerie) is a facility in which animals are kept within enclosures for public exhibition and often bred for conservation purposes.\n\nThe term zoological garden refers to zoology, the study of animals. The term is derived from the Greek \u03b6\u03ce\u03bf\u03bd, zoon, 'animal', and the suffix -\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03af\u03b1, -logia, 'study of'. The abbreviation zoo was first used of the London Zoological Gardens, which was opened for scientific study in 1828 and to the public in 1847. In the United States alone, zoos are visited by over 181 million people annually.\n Question: How many people visit the zoo in the US each year?", "output": "181 million people in the US visit the zoo annually each year."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The campuses' dominant architectural themes are Federal, Classical and Antebellum style. Though there have been many additions, changes, and augmentations, the University of Georgia's campus maintains its historic character. In 2000, the entire campus was designated as an arboretum, the University of Georgia Campus Arboretum. It is estimated to be home to about 9,000 trees with over 154 identified species including native trees such magnolias, red oaks, white oaks, and beeches, as well as non-native trees such as the North Africa Atlas cedar, the Chinese parasol and royal paulownia, and the Japanese zelkova and black pine\n Question: Based on the following paragraph about the campuses of the University of Georgia, which types of trees can be found on the campus?", "output": "On the campuses of the University of Georgia one can find native tree species such as magnolias, red oaks, white oaks, and beeches. There are also non-native tree species to be found such as the North Africa Atlas cedar, the Chinese parasol and royal paulownia, and the Japanese zelkova and black pine."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Dogecoin (/\u02c8do\u028a(d)\u0292k\u0254\u026an/ DOHJ-koyn or DOHZH-koyn, Abbreviation: DOGE; sign: \u00d0) is a cryptocurrency created by software engineers Billy Markus and Jackson Palmer, who decided to create a payment system as a \"joke\", making fun of the wild speculation in cryptocurrencies at the time. It is considered both the first \"meme coin\", and, more specifically, the first \"dog coin\". Despite its satirical nature, some consider it a legitimate investment prospect. Dogecoin features the face of the Shiba Inu dog from the \"doge\" meme as its logo and namesake. It was introduced on December 6, 2013, and quickly developed its own online community, reaching a market capitalization of over $85 billion on May 5, 2021. As of 2021, it is the sleeve sponsor of Watford Football Club.\n Question: Who created Doge Coin and when?", "output": "Doge coin was created by Billy Markus and Jackson Palmer and it was introduced in December 6, 2013."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Fairdale High School is a high school located in the Fairdale area of Louisville, Kentucky, United States. It is part of the Jefferson County Public Schools. As of the 2013\u201314 school year, there were 1,804 students at the school.\n Question: Is there a high school in Fairdale", "output": "Yes. The Fairdale High School is a high school located in the Fairdale area of Louisville, Kentucky, United States. It is part of the Jefferson County Public Schools. As of the 2013\u201314 school year, there were 1,804 students at the school."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 2019, Altuve's role in the 2017 World Series gained nationwide attention in the Houston Astros sign stealing scandal. With regard to the scandal, Altuve said, \"I'm not going to say to you that it was good \u2014 it was wrong. We feel bad, we feel remorse, like I said, the impact on the fans, the impact on the game \u2014 we feel bad.\" According to the website signstealingscandal.com, Altuve's instances of hearing the trash can banging were significantly lower than those of any other everyday player. Peter Gammons noted in 2022 that when he talked to Altuve in 2020 about how players, coaches, and members in the organization believed that Altuve did not participate in the stealing, Altuve declined to talk about it. He stated that it would be a \"betrayal of my teammates\" to discuss the matter and asked that Gammons not write about it. Despite this, many Astros players have defended Altuve in particular of any wrongdoing. Carlos Correa, in an interview with Ken Rosenthal, stated of Altuve's role in the scandal: \"The few times that the trash can was banged was without his consent, and he would go inside the clubhouse and inside the dugout to whoever was banging the trash can and he would get pissed. He would get mad. He would say, 'I don't want this. I can't hit like this. Don't you do that to me.' He played the game clean\"; Correa's comments came after Dodgers outfielder Cody Bellinger accused Altuve of stealing the MVP Award from runner-up Aaron Judge.\n Question: Did Jos\u00e9 Altuve cheat in 2017?", "output": "Jos\u00e9 Altuve played for the 2017 Astros, who are known to have used an illegal sign stealing system, but Altuve himself did not participate in the system and did not cheat."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Summer\nDue to the Desert Geography, frequently climb above 40 to 45 degrees Celsius in most places.\n\nDue to its location, summers are the longest season in Rajasthan.\n\nIn this time tourist activities are very low.\n\nWinter\nThe cold weather commences early in October and ends around the end of February and sometimes the temperatures reach nearly 2-degree celsius [*record in 1964 in JAIPUR the temperature reached 0-degree Celsius on 13 December.]\n Question: Does Rajasthan - the desert state of India, have winters?", "output": "Summers are the longest season in Rajasthan where the temperature climbs upto 40-45 degree celsius in most places. However, Rajasthan does witness winters every year starting from the month of October until February. Sometimes the temperature can be as low as around 2 degrees as well."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Declaration of Independence was signed by 56 of America's Founding Fathers, who were Second Continental Congress delegates from New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. The Declaration became one of the most circulated and widely reprinted documents in early American history.\n Question: How many American's signed the Declaration of Independence?", "output": "56"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Leptodactylus tapiti is a species of frog in the family Leptodactylidae. It is endemic to Brazil. Its natural habitats are moist savanna, subtropical or tropical high-altitude grassland, and rivers.\n Question: What is Leptodactylus tapiti?", "output": "Leptodactylus tapiti is a species of frog and is native to Brazil."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Second-stage boot loaders, such as GNU GRUB, rEFInd, BOOTMGR, Syslinux, NTLDR or iBoot, are not themselves operating systems, but are able to load an operating system properly and transfer execution to it; the operating system subsequently initializes itself and may load extra device drivers. The second-stage boot loader does not need drivers for its own operation, but may instead use generic storage access methods provided by system firmware such as the BIOS or Open Firmware, though typically with restricted hardware functionality and lower performance.\n\nMany boot loaders can be configured to give the user multiple booting choices. These choices can include different operating systems (for dual or multi-booting from different partitions or drives), different versions of the same operating system (in case a new version has unexpected problems), different operating system loading options (e.g., booting into a rescue or safe mode), and some standalone programs that can function without an operating system, such as memory testers (e.g., memtest86+), a basic shell (as in GNU GRUB), or even games (see List of PC Booter games).Some boot loaders can also load other boot loaders; for example, GRUB loads BOOTMGR instead of loading Windows directly. Usually, a default choice is preselected with a time delay during which a user can press a key to change the choice; after this delay, the default choice is automatically run so normal booting can occur without interaction.\n\nThe boot process can be considered complete when the computer is ready to interact with the user, or the operating system is capable of running system programs or application programs.\n\nMany embedded systems must boot immediately. For example, waiting a minute for a digital television or a GPS navigation device to start is generally unacceptable. Therefore, such devices have software systems in ROM or flash memory so the device can begin functioning immediately; little or no loading is necessary, because the loading can be precomputed and stored on the ROM when the device is made.\n\nLarge and complex systems may have boot procedures that proceed in multiple phases until finally the operating system and other programs are loaded and ready to execute. Because operating systems are designed as if they never start or stop, a boot loader might load the operating system, configure itself as a mere process within that system, and then irrevocably transfer control to the operating system. The boot loader then terminates normally as any other process would.\n Question: Linux Second-stage boot loader", "output": "A two-stage bootloader actually consists of two bootloaders after each other. The first being small with the sole purpose of loading the second one. The second one can then contain all the code needed for loading the kernel. GRUB uses two (or arguably, three) stages."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The New Joint Endeavor for Welfare, Education, and Liberation, or New JEWEL Movement (NJM), was a Marxist\u2013Leninist vanguard party in the Caribbean island nation of Grenada that was led by Maurice Bishop.\n\nEstablished in 1973, the NJM issued its manifesto prior to the granting of independence to Grenada in 1974. The movement took control of the country with a successful bloodless revolution in 1979 and ruled by decree as the People's Revolutionary Government until 1983. In 1983, Bishop was killed by paramilitaries affiliated with hard-liners in his own party. This led to a military government, which was deposed by the US military in a 1983 invasion.\n Question: Using the reference information, how many years was the People's Revolutionary Government in control in Grenada, and under what leader?", "output": "Maurice Bishop led the People's Revolutionary Government for 4 years in Grenada, between 1979 and 1983."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The four national languages of Switzerland are German, French, Italian, and Romansh. German, French, and Italian maintain equal status as official languages at the national level within the Federal Administration of the Swiss Confederation, while Romansh is used in dealings with people who speak it. Latin is occasionally used in some formal contexts, particularly to denote the country (Confederatio Helvetica).\n\nIn 2020, 62.3% of the population of Switzerland were native speakers of German (either Swiss German or Standard German) at home; 22.8% French (mostly Swiss French, but including some Franco-Proven\u00e7al dialects); 8% Italian (mostly Swiss Italian, but including Lombard); and 0.5% Romansh. The German region (Deutschschweiz) is roughly in the east, north, and centre; the French part (la Romandie) in the west; and the Italian area (Svizzera italiana) in the south. There remains a small Romansh-speaking native population in Grisons in the east. The cantons of Fribourg, Bern, and Valais are officially bilingual; Grisons is officially trilingual.\n Question: What languages are spoken in Switzerland", "output": "The four national languages of Switzerland are German, French, Italian, and Romansh. German, French, and Italian maintain equal status as official languages at the national level within the Federal Administration of the Swiss Confederation, while Romansh is used in dealings with people who speak it. Latin is occasionally used in some formal contexts, particularly to denote the country (Confederatio Helvetica).\n\nIn 2020, 62.3% of the population of Switzerland were native speakers of German (either Swiss German or Standard German) at home; 22.8% French (mostly Swiss French, but including some Franco-Proven\u00e7al dialects); 8% Italian (mostly Swiss Italian, but including Lombard); and 0.5% Romansh.\n\nThe German region (Deutschschweiz) is roughly in the east, north, and centre; the French part (la Romandie) in the west; and the Italian area (Svizzera italiana) in the south. There remains a small Romansh-speaking native population in Grisons in the east. The cantons of Fribourg, Bern, and Valais are officially bilingual; Grisons is officially trilingual."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The FamilyMart Company, Ltd. (\u682a\u5f0f\u4f1a\u793e\u30d5\u30a1\u30df\u30ea\u30fc\u30de\u30fc\u30c8, Kabushikigaisha Famir\u012bm\u0101to) is a Japanese convenience store franchise chain. It is Japan's second largest convenience store chain, behind 7-Eleven. There are now 24,574 stores worldwide in Japan, Taiwan, China, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, South Korea, Indonesia, and Malaysia. Its headquarters is on the 17th floor of the Sunshine 60 building in Ikebukuro, Toshima, Tokyo. There are some stores in Japan with the name Circle K Sunkus under the operation of FamilyMart.\n Question: What is Family Mart Japan?", "output": "Family Mart is Japan's second largest convenience store chain, behind 7-Eleven."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Doors of Stone is unreleased as of 2023, a point of contention online. Rothfuss has said that the book would \"conclude Kvothe's story\", closing off the current arc, but that further stories in the world of Temerant would be forthcoming.[citation needed] He also said that the book presented challenges different from The Wise Man's Fear's. In 2020, Rothfuss's publisher and editor Elizabeth Wollheim expressed frustration with the delay, stating she had not read \"a word\" of the book nine years on.\n\nIn 2021, Rothfuss apologized for the long delay in releasing The Doors of Stone, citing issues in his personal life and his mental health as reasons.\n Question: When will the The Doors of Stone, the third book of The Kingkiller Chronicle, come out?", "output": "As of 2023, The Doors of Stone is unreleased, with no stated release date. Rothfuss has stated that the book presented challenges to complete, and issues in his personal life and mental health have contributed to the delay."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Panama Canal (Spanish: Canal de Panam\u00e1) is an artificial 82 km (51 mi) waterway in Panama that connects the Atlantic Ocean with the Pacific Ocean and divides North and South America. The canal cuts across the Isthmus of Panama and is a conduit for maritime trade. One of the largest and most difficult engineering projects ever undertaken, the Panama Canal shortcut greatly reduces the time for ships to travel between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, enabling them to avoid the lengthy, hazardous Cape Horn route around the southernmost tip of South America via the Drake Passage or Strait of Magellan.\n Question: Between what oceans does the Panama Canal save time?", "output": "The Panama Canal cuts down on the transportation time between the Pacific and Atlantic oceans."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Spanish\u2013American War (April 21 \u2013 August 13, 1898) began in the aftermath of the internal explosion of USS Maine in Havana Harbor in Cuba, leading to United States intervention in the Cuban War of Independence. The war led to the United States emerging predominant in the Caribbean region, and resulted in U.S. acquisition of Spain's Pacific possessions. It led to United States involvement in the Philippine Revolution and later to the Philippine\u2013American War.\n\nThe 19th century represented a clear decline for the Spanish Empire, while the United States went from becoming a newly founded country to being a medium regional power. In the Spanish case, the descent, which already came from previous centuries, accelerated first with the Napoleonic invasion, which in turn would cause the independence of a large part of the American colonies, and later political instability (pronouncements, revolutions, civil wars) bled the country socially and economically. The U.S., on the other hand, expanded economically throughout that century by purchasing territories such as Louisiana and Alaska, militarily by actions such as the Mexican\u2013American War, and by receiving large numbers of immigrants. That process was interrupted only for a few years by the American Civil War and Reconstruction era.\n\nThe main issue was Cuban independence. Revolts had been occurring for some years in Cuba against Spanish colonial rule. The United States backed these revolts upon entering the Spanish\u2013American War. There had been war scares before, as in the Virginius Affair in 1873. But in the late 1890s, American public opinion swayed in support of the rebellion because of reports of concentration camps set up to control the populace. Yellow journalism exaggerated the atrocities to further increase public fervor and to sell more newspapers and magazines.\n\nThe business community had just recovered from a deep depression and feared that a war would reverse the gains. Accordingly, most business interests lobbied vigorously against going to war. President William McKinley ignored the exaggerated news reporting and sought a peaceful settlement. Though not seeking a war, McKinley made preparations for readiness against one. He unsuccessfully sought accommodation with Spain on the issue of independence for Cuba. However, after the U.S. Navy armored cruiser Maine mysteriously exploded and sank in Havana Harbor on February 15, 1898, political pressures pushed McKinley into a war that he had wished to avoid.\n\nAs far as Spain was concerned, there was a nationalist agitation, in which the written press had a key influence, causing the Spanish government to not give in and abandon Cuba as it had abandoned Spanish Florida when faced with a troublesome colonial situation there, transferring it to the U.S. in 1821 in exchange for payment of Spanish debts. If the Spanish government had transferred Cuba it would have been seen as a betrayal by a part of Spanish society and there would probably have been a new revolution. So the government preferred to wage a lost war beforehand, rather than risk a revolution, opting for a \"controlled demolition\" to preserve the Restoration Regime.\n\nOn April 20, 1898, McKinley signed a joint Congressional resolution demanding Spanish withdrawal and authorizing the President to use military force to help Cuba gain independence. In response, Spain severed diplomatic relations with the United States on April 21. On the same day, the United States Navy began a blockade of Cuba. Both sides declared war; neither had allies.\n\nThe 10-week war was fought in both the Caribbean and the Pacific. As United States agitators for war well knew, United States naval power would prove decisive, allowing expeditionary forces to disembark in Cuba against a Spanish garrison already facing nationwide Cuban insurgent attacks and further devastated by yellow fever. The invaders obtained the surrender of Santiago de Cuba and Manila despite the good performance of some Spanish infantry units, and fierce fighting for positions such as El Caney and San Juan Hill. Madrid sued for peace after two Spanish squadrons were sunk in the battles of Santiago de Cuba and Manila Bay, and a third, more modern fleet was recalled home to protect the Spanish coasts.\n\nThe war ended with the 1898 Treaty of Paris, negotiated on terms favorable to the United States. The treaty ceded ownership of Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines from Spain to the United States and granted the United States temporary control of Cuba. The cession of the Philippines involved payment of $20 million ($650 million today) to Spain by the U.S. to cover infrastructure owned by Spain.\n\nThe Spanish\u2013American War brought an end to almost four centuries of Spanish presence in the Americas, Asia, and the Pacific. The defeat and loss of the Spanish Empire's last remnants was a profound shock to Spain's national psyche and provoked a thorough philosophical and artistic reevaluation of Spanish society known as the Generation of '98. The United States meanwhile not only became a major power, but also gained several island possessions spanning the globe, which provoked rancorous debate over the wisdom of expansionism.\n Question: Given the reference text about the Spanish-American war, when and how did the war end?", "output": "The Spanish-American war ended on August 13, 1898 with the 1898 Treaty of Paris. The treaty ceded ownership of Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines from Spain the to the United States."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kirchenlamitz is a town in the district of Wunsiedel, in Bavaria, Germany. It is situated in the Fichtelgebirge, 13 km northwest of Wunsiedel and 19 km south of Hof.\n Question: In which country is the town of Kirchenlamitz located?", "output": "Germany"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Outcomes from Project Vesta have been integrated into firefighter training in Australia and are beginning to appear in the United States.\n\nFirefighters try to stay out of the dead man zone at all times, working from safe points such as burnt ground or a large area of non-burnable ground, such as a cricket or Australian rules football oval, or a large car park. This is achieved by attacking the fire from the flanks, or the rear, so that burnt ground is always nearby, and the fire is always in front of the firefighters. This avoids two disadvantages of attacking fires at the head of the fire where spot fires may start behind them or changes in wind behavior might accelerate the spread of the fire.\n\nThe result of several inquiries into firefighter death in Australian bushfires found that firefighters should stay out of the dead man zone and that they should always keep 250 liters of water in their truck for personal safety. This is now a standard operating procedure in the NSW Rural Fire Service, Country Fire Service and Country Fire Authority in Australia.\n Question: Based on the reference provided, what are some tactics firefighters use to stay safe while fighting wildfires?", "output": "Firefighters keep out of the dead man zone and carry large amounts of water (at least 250 liters) with them."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Conus episcopatus common name the dignified cone, is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Conidae, the cone snails and their allies.\n\nLike all species within the genus Conus, these snails are predatory and venomous. They are capable of \"stinging\" humans, therefore live ones should be handled carefully or not at all.\n\nDescription\nThe size of the shell varies between 40 mm and 115 mm. The shell of Conus Episcopatus is elongated and has a high spire, which means that it has a tall apex. The shell is relatively thick and heavy, with a glossy surface and a series of raised ridges or ribs that run along its length. The overall shape of the shell is conical, with a pointed apex and a wider base.\n\nThe coloration of the shell can vary widely, but it basically has a base color of white or cream, with a series of darker or lighter bands, blotches, or spots that form complex patterns. The patterns can be quite intricate and unique, which is one reason why cone snails are prized by collectors.\n\nLike all cone snails, Conus Episcopatus is venomous and uses its venom to immobilize and kill its prey. Venom is delivered through a harpoon-like structure called a radula tooth located on the proboscis of the snail. The venom of some species of cone snail can be highly toxic and dangerous to humans, and care must be taken when handling them.\n Question: Given a reference text about Conus episcopatus, describe the shell.", "output": "The shell size ranges from 40mm to 115mm and has a base color of white or cream with series of darker or lighter blotches that form complex patterns."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Karachchi Divisional Council is the local authority for Kandavalai and Karachchi DS Divisions in northern Sri Lanka. KDC is responsible for providing a variety of local public services including roads, sanitation, drains, housing, libraries, public parks and recreational facilities. It has 19 members elected using the open list proportional representation system.\n Question: In which country is the Karachchi Divisional Council located?", "output": "Sri Lanka"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kerala (English: /\u02c8k\u025br\u0259l\u0259/ KERR-\u0259-l\u0259; Malayalam: [ke:\u027e\u0250\u026d\u0250m] (listen)) is a state on the Malabar Coast of India. It was formed on 1 November 1956, following the passage of the States Reorganisation Act, by combining Malayalam-speaking regions of the erstwhile regions of Cochin, Malabar, South Canara, and Travancore. Spread over 38,863 km2 (15,005 sq mi), Kerala is the 21st largest Indian state by area. It is bordered by Karnataka to the north and northeast, Tamil Nadu to the east and south, and the Lakshadweep Sea to the west. With 33 million inhabitants as per the 2011 census, Kerala is the 13th-largest Indian state by population. It is divided into 14 districts with the capital being Thiruvananthapuram. Malayalam is the most widely spoken language and is also the official language of the state.\n Question: What year was Kerala formed?", "output": "1956"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Audrey Babette Blackman (n\u00e9e Seligman; 28 July 1907 \u2013 17 July 1990) was a British sculptor and ceramist.\n\nBiography\nBlackman was born in London and raised in Leatherhead in Surrey by her parents, Hilda, a sculptor and author, and Richard Seligman, a chemical engineer. After attending Wimbledon High School in London, Blackman spent two years, from 1924, at a Kunstgewerbeschule in Graz in Austria before returning to England to study at Goldsmiths College School of Art until 1930 and then at the University of Reading from 1931 until 1935.\n\nBlackman initially worked in bronze to produce small group pieces and figures but after World War II began using terracotta and stoneware before concentrating on creating ceramic figures. In her ceramic work, Blackman worked rolled and slabbed pieces of clay into figurines and, in 1978, published a handbook, Rolled Pottery Figures, on her technique. Later in her life she produced more abstract pieces, including paintings in both watercolour and gouache.\n\nBlackman was a regular exhibitor with the Society of Women Artists, SWA, and at the Royal Academy in London. She showed some 48 works with the SWA between 1939 and 1971 and was elected an associate member in 1952 and a full member in 1961. Seventeen works by Blackman were included in Royal Academy exhibitions between 1938 and 1960. She also exhibited on at least one occasion at the Royal Glasgow Institute of the Fine Arts and was a member of the Art Workers Guild. Blackman was active in several bodies promoting arts and crafts including the International Academy of Ceramics, the Craft Advisory Committee and the Federation of British Craft Societies.\n\nLiving in Boar's Hill near Oxford, she married Geoffrey Blackman, the Sibthorpian professor of rural economy at Oxford University, and she was long associated with that University's St Cross College, where several examples of her sculpture and pottery are held and a room is named in her memory.\n Question: Given a reference text about Audrey Babette Blackman, tell me her parents names and occupations.", "output": "Audrey Babette Blackman parents names were Hilda Sligman and Richard Seligman. Hilda was a sculptor and author and Richard was a chemical engineer."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1941, a young Catholic priest, Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Arizmendiarrieta settled in Mondrag\u00f3n, a town with a population of 7,000 that had not yet recovered from the poverty, hunger, exile, and tension of the Spanish Civil War. In 1943, Arizmendiarrieta established a technical college which became a training ground for managers, engineers and skilled labour for local companies, and primarily for the co-operatives.\n Question: What did Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Arizmendiarrieta do?", "output": "Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Arizmendiarrieta was a Catholic Preist who settled in Mondrag\u00f3n, a town with a population of 7,000 that had not yet recovered from the poverty, hunger, exile, and tension of the Spanish Civil War."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The UEFA Champions League is a seasonal football competition established in 1955. Prior to the 1992\u201393 season, the tournament was named the European Cup. The UEFA Champions League is open to the league champions of all UEFA (Union of European Football Associations) member associations (except Liechtenstein, which has no league competition), as well as to the clubs finishing from second to fourth position in the strongest leagues. Originally, only the champions of their respective national league and the defending champions of the competition were allowed to participate. However, this was changed in 1997 to allow the runners-up of the stronger leagues to compete as well, and again in 1999 when third and fourth-placed teams of the said leagues also became eligible. In the Champions League era, the defending champions of the competition did not automatically qualify until the rules were changed in 2005 to allow title holders Liverpool to enter the competition.\n\nTeams that have won the UEFA Champions League three consecutive times, or five times overall, receive a multiple-winner badge. Six teams have earned this privilege: Real Madrid, Ajax, Bayern Munich, Milan, Liverpool, and Barcelona. Until 2009, clubs that had earned that badge were allowed to keep the European Champion Clubs' Cup and a new one was commissioned; since 2009, the winning team each year has received a full-size replica of the trophy, while the original is retained by UEFA.\n\nA total of 22 clubs have won the Champions League/European Cup. Real Madrid hold the record for the most victories, having won the competition fourteen times, including the inaugural edition. They have also won the competition the most consecutive times, with five straight titles from 1956 to 1960. Juventus have been runners-up the most times, losing seven finals. Atl\u00e9tico Madrid is the only team to reach three finals without having won the trophy while Reims and Valencia have finished as runners-up twice without winning. Spain has provided the most champions, with nineteen wins from two clubs. England have produced fourteen winners from five clubs and Italy have produced twelve winners from three clubs. English teams were banned from the competition for five years following the Heysel disaster in 1985. The current champions are Real Madrid, who beat Liverpool 1\u20130 in the 2022 final for a record-extending fourteenth title.\n Question: Which club has won the most number of UEFA Champions League?", "output": "Real Madrid has won 14 of UEFA Champions League titles, make it the club that has won the most number of the tile, among all European clubs."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Paraskevi has competed in three Paralympics competing in the T11 100m, 200m and long jump. Her first games were the 2004 Summer Paralympics in her home country where she won a bronze in the 100m. She was unable to match this in Beijing in the 2008 Summer Paralympics and in London in 2012 Summer Paralympics where she failed to win any medals.\n Question: How many paralympics did Paraskevi compete in?", "output": "Paraskevi competed in three paralympics."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: An outdoor observation deck, named At the Top, opened on 5 January 2010 on the 124th floor. At 452 m (1,483 ft), it was the highest outdoor observation deck in the world when it opened. Although it was surpassed in December 2011 by Cloud Top 488 on the Canton Tower, Guangzhou at 488 m (1,601 ft), Burj Khalifa opened the 148th floor SKY level at 555 m (1,821 ft), once again giving it the highest observation deck in the world on 15 October 2014, until the Shanghai Tower opened in June 2016 with an observation deck at a height of 561 metres. The 124th floor observation deck also features the electronic telescope, an augmented reality device developed by Gsmprjct\u00b0 of Montr\u00e9al, which allows visitors to view the surrounding landscape in real-time, and to view previously saved images such as those taken at different times of day or under different weather conditions. To reduce the daily rush of sightseers, management allows visitors to purchase tickets in advance for a specific date and time, at a 75% discount on tickets purchased on the spot.\n Question: Given the following paragraph about the observation deck of the Burj Khalifa, what's offered on the 124th floor observation deck?", "output": "The 124th floor observation deck of the Burj Khalifa offers an augmented reality device called the electronic telescope which allows visitors to view surrounding landscapes in real-time as well as saved images."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The 2023 NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament involved 68 teams playing in a single-elimination tournament that determined the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I men's basketball national champion for the 2022\u201323 season. The 84th annual edition of the tournament began on March 14, 2023, and concluded with the UConn Huskies defeating the San Diego State Aztecs, 76\u201359 in the championship game on April 3 at NRG Stadium in Houston, Texas.\n Question: Who won March Madness?", "output": "UConn Huskies won the 2023 NCAA Division 1 men's basketball tournament defeating San Diego State Aztecs, 76-59. This tournament is popularly known as March Madness."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1910, Imperial Japan annexed Korea, where it ruled for 35 years until its surrender at the end of World War II on 15 August 1945. The United States and the Soviet Union divided Korea along the 38th parallel into two zones of occupation. The Soviets administered the northern zone and the Americans administered the southern zone. In 1948, as a result of Cold War tensions, the occupation zones became two sovereign states. A socialist state, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, was established in the north under the totalitarian communist leadership of Kim Il-sung, while a capitalist state, the Republic of Korea, was established in the south under the autocratic leadership of Syngman Rhee. Both governments of the two new Korean states claimed to be the sole legitimate government of all of Korea, and neither accepted the border as permanent.\n Question: Based on the paragraph about the Korean War, what is the name of the new sovereign state created in the north?", "output": "Democratic People's Republic of Korea"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Thomas William Dobbie (November 13, 1829 \u2013 April 1, 1908) was a Canadian civil engineer, provincial land surveyor and political figure. He represented Elgin East in the 1st Canadian Parliament as a Conservative member.\n\nHe was born in Bayham Township, Upper Canada in 1829, the son of Andrew Dobbie, a Scottish immigrant, and Martha Ann Bowlby. Dobbie was educated in Bayham township and London, Ontario. He served as reeve for the township from 1863 to 1867 and from 1876 to 1877. Dobbie lived in Tillsonburg.\n\nDobbie was married twice: to Susan Margaret Jones in 1872 and to Mary Hodgson in 1891. He died in Tillsonburg at the age of 78.\n Question: Given a reference text about Thomas William Dobbie, tell me his nationality.", "output": "Thomas William Dobbie was Canadian."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Machine learning (ML) is a field of inquiry devoted to understanding and building methods that \"learn\" \u2013 that is, methods that leverage data to improve performance on some set of tasks. It is seen as a part of artificial intelligence.\n\nMachine learning algorithms build a model based on sample data, known as training data, in order to make predictions or decisions without being explicitly programmed to do so. Machine learning algorithms are used in a wide variety of applications, such as in medicine, email filtering, speech recognition, agriculture, and computer vision, where it is difficult or unfeasible to develop conventional algorithms to perform the needed tasks.\n\nA subset of machine learning is closely related to computational statistics, which focuses on making predictions using computers, but not all machine learning is statistical learning. The study of mathematical optimization delivers methods, theory and application domains to the field of machine learning. Data mining is a related field of study, focusing on exploratory data analysis through unsupervised learning.\n\nSome implementations of machine learning use data and neural networks in a way that mimics the working of a biological brain.\n\nIn its application across business problems, machine learning is also referred to as predictive analytics.\n\nOverview\nLearning algorithms work on the basis that strategies, algorithms, and inferences that worked well in the past are likely to continue working well in the future. These inferences can be obvious, such as \"since the sun rose every morning for the last 10,000 days, it will probably rise tomorrow morning as well\". They can be nuanced, such as \"X% of families have geographically separate species with color variants, so there is a Y% chance that undiscovered black swans exist\".\n\nMachine learning programs can perform tasks without being explicitly programmed to do so. It involves computers learning from data provided so that they carry out certain tasks. For simple tasks assigned to computers, it is possible to program algorithms telling the machine how to execute all steps required to solve the problem at hand; on the computer's part, no learning is needed. For more advanced tasks, it can be challenging for a human to manually create the needed algorithms. In practice, it can turn out to be more effective to help the machine develop its own algorithm, rather than having human programmers specify every needed step.\n\nThe discipline of machine learning employs various approaches to teach computers to accomplish tasks where no fully satisfactory algorithm is available. In cases where vast numbers of potential answers exist, one approach is to label some of the correct answers as valid. This can then be used as training data for the computer to improve the algorithm(s) it uses to determine correct answers. For example, to train a system for the task of digital character recognition, the MNIST dataset of handwritten digits has often been used.\n\nHistory and relationships to other fields\nSee also: Timeline of machine learning\nThe term machine learning was coined in 1959 by Arthur Samuel, an IBM employee and pioneer in the field of computer gaming and artificial intelligence. The synonym self-teaching computers was also used in this time period.\n\nBy the early 1960s an experimental \"learning machine\" with punched tape memory, called CyberTron, had been developed by Raytheon Company to analyze sonar signals, electrocardiograms, and speech patterns using rudimentary reinforcement learning. It was repetitively \"trained\" by a human operator/teacher to recognize patterns and equipped with a \"goof\" button to cause it to re-evaluate incorrect decisions. A representative book on research into machine learning during the 1960s was Nilsson's book on Learning Machines, dealing mostly with machine learning for pattern classification. Interest related to pattern recognition continued into the 1970s, as described by Duda and Hart in 1973. In 1981 a report was given on using teaching strategies so that a neural network learns to recognize 40 characters (26 letters, 10 digits, and 4 special symbols) from a computer terminal.\n\nTom M. Mitchell provided a widely quoted, more formal definition of the algorithms studied in the machine learning field: \"A computer program is said to learn from experience E with respect to some class of tasks T and performance measure P if its performance at tasks in T, as measured by P, improves with experience E.\" This definition of the tasks in which machine learning is concerned offers a fundamentally operational definition rather than defining the field in cognitive terms. This follows Alan Turing's proposal in his paper \"Computing Machinery and Intelligence\", in which the question \"Can machines think?\" is replaced with the question \"Can machines do what we (as thinking entities) can do?\".\n\nModern-day machine learning has two objectives, one is to classify data based on models which have been developed, the other purpose is to make predictions for future outcomes based on these models. A hypothetical algorithm specific to classifying data may use computer vision of moles coupled with supervised learning in order to train it to classify the cancerous moles. A machine learning algorithm for stock trading may inform\n Question: What is machine learning, and when did it first emerge?", "output": "Machine learning  is a branch of AI concerned with understanding and developing methods that learn,\"  that is, methods that use data to improve performance on a set of tasks.  Machine learning algorithms construct a model from sample data, referred to as training data, in order to make predictions or decisions without being explicitly programmed to do so. It first emerged in the 1960s."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift has come in dispute with her former record label, Big Machine Records, its founder Scott Borchetta, and new owner Scooter Braun, over the ownership of the master recordings of her first six studio albums. It is a highly publicized conflict, drawing widespread attention and media coverage since its ignition in 2019.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Taylor Swift re-recording her masters, who was responsible for the controversy?", "output": "Scooter Braun."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: James A. Garfield, the 20th president of the United States, was shot at the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Station in Washington, D.C., at 9:30 am on Saturday, July 2, 1881. He died in Elberon, New Jersey, 79 days later on September 19, 1881. The shooting occurred less than four months into his term as president. Garfield's assassin was Charles J. Guiteau, whose motive was revenge against Garfield for an imagined political debt, and getting Chester A. Arthur elevated to president. Guiteau was convicted of Garfield's murder and executed by hanging one year after the shooting.\n\nPart of Guiteau's preserved brain is on display at the M\u00fctter Museum at the College of Physicians of Philadelphia. Guiteau's bones and more of his brain, along with Garfield's backbone and a few ribs, are kept at the National Museum of Health and Medicine, at the Army's Forest Glen Annex in Silver Spring, Maryland. Garfield's assassination was instrumental to the passage of the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act on January 16, 1883. Garfield himself had called for civil service reform in his inaugural address and supported it as president in the belief that it would make government more efficient. It was passed as something of a memorial to the fallen President. Arthur lost the Republican nomination in 1884 to Blaine, who went on to lose a close election to Democrat Grover Cleveland.\n Question: Given that preserving human brains for more than a century is fairly uncommon, what do you think was the motivation for preserving Guiteau's brain?", "output": "One reason for preserving the brain may have been to study structural abnormalities that could have explained Guiteau's violent behavior. Alternatively, because Guiteau was well-known and infamous, his brain may have been preserved for use as a memento or as a warning to discourage presidential assassinations in the future."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wines and spirits\nAo Yun\nArdbeg\nBelvedere\nBodega Numanthia\nCape Mentelle\nChandon\nCh\u00e2teau d'Esclans\nCh\u00e2teau Cheval Blanc\nCh\u00e2teau d'Yquem\nCheval des Andes\nClos des Lambrays\nCloudy Bay\nColgin Cellars\nDom P\u00e9rignon\nGlenmorangie\nHennessy\nKrug\nMercier\nMo\u00ebt & Chandon\nNewton Vineyard\nRuinart\nTerrazas de los Andes\nVeuve Clicquot\nVolcan de mi Tierra\nWoodinville\n\nFashion and leather goods\nBerluti\nBirkenstock\nCeline\nChristian Dior\nEmilio Pucci\nFendi\nGivenchy\nJW Anderson\nKenzo\nLoewe\nLoro Piana\nLouis Vuitton\nMarc Jacobs\nMoynat\nOff-White\nPatou\nPhoebe Philo\nRimowa\nStella McCartney\n\nPerfumes and cosmetics\nAcqua di Parma\nBenefit Cosmetics\nBITE Beauty\nCha Ling\nFenty Beauty by Rihanna\nFresh Beauty\nParfums Givenchy\nGuerlain\nKenzo Parfums\nKVD Vegan Beauty\nMaison Francis Kurkdjian\nMake Up For Ever\nMarc Jacobs Beauty\nOfficine Universelle Buly\nOle Henriksen\nParfums Christian Dior\nPerfumes Loewe\nSephora\n\nWatches and jewelry\nBulgari\nChaumet\nDaniel Roth\nFred\nHublot\nGerald Genta\nRepossi\nTAG Heuer\nTiffany & Co.\nZenith\n\nSelective retailing\nDFS\nLa Grande Epicerie\nLa Samaritaine\nLe Bon March\u00e9\nStarboard Cruise Services\n\nOther activities\nBelmond\nMaisons Cheval Blanc\nConnaissance des Arts\nCova\nInvestir\nJardin d'Acclimatation\nLe Parisien\nLes Echos\nRadio Classique\nRoyal Van Lent\n Question: Given a reference text that describes LVMH, what brands are part of LVMH?", "output": "U.S. LVMH controls around 60 subsidiaries that manage 75 prestigious brands. These include Tiffany & Co., Christian Dior, Fendi, Givenchy, Marc Jacobs, Stella McCartney, Loewe, Loro Piana, Kenzo, Celine, Sephora, Princess Yachts, TAG Heuer, and Bulgari."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jonava railway bridge (lit. Jonavos gele\u017einkelio tiltas, Jonavos gele\u017einis tiltas) is a railway bridge over the Neris in Jonava (Jonava district municipality), the ninth largest city in Lithuania with a population of ca 35,000.\n Question: How many cities in Lithuania are larger than Neris?", "output": "Eight cities are larger than Neris in Lithuania. This is because Neris is the 9th largest, meaning there are 8 which are larger."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The development of metal\u2013oxide\u2013semiconductor (MOS) very-large-scale integration (VLSI), in the form of complementary MOS (CMOS) technology, enabled increasing MOS transistor counts in digital electronics. This provided more processing power for the development of practical artificial neural networks in the 1980s. From 1988 onward, the use of neural networks transformed the field of protein structure prediction, in particular when the first cascading networks were trained on profiles (matrices) produced by multiple sequence alignments.\n Question: During which decade did neural networks first lead to practically useful systems?", "output": "The development of metal\u2013oxide\u2013semiconductor (MOS) very-large-scale integration (VLSI), in the form of complementary MOS (CMOS) technology, enabled the development of practical artificial neural networks in the 1980s"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Chernobyl disaster was a nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the No. 4 reactor in the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant, near the city of Pripyat in the north of the Ukrainian SSR in the Soviet Union. Called the world's worst-ever civil nuclear incident, it is one of only two nuclear energy accidents rated at seven\u2014the maximum severity\u2014on the International Nuclear Event Scale, the other being the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster in Japan. The initial emergency response, together with later decontamination of the environment, involved more than 500,000 personnel and cost an estimated 18 billion roubles\u2014roughly US$68 billion in 2019, adjusted for inflation. Chernobyl's health effects to the general population are uncertain. An excess of 15 childhood thyroid cancer deaths were documented as of 2011. A United Nations committee found that to date fewer than 100 deaths have resulted from the fallout. Determining the total eventual number of exposure related deaths is uncertain based on the linear no-threshold model, a contested statistical model. Model predictions of the eventual total death toll in the coming decades vary. The most widely cited studies by the World Health Organization predict an eventual 9,000 cancer related fatalities in Ukraine, Belarus and Russia.\n Question: Why is the Chernobyl disaster considered to be the world's worst-ever civil nuclear incident when only an excess of 15 childhood thyroid cancer deaths were documented as of 2011?", "output": "The Chernobyl disaster was called the world's worst-ever civil nuclear incident because it is one of only two nuclear energy accidents rated at seven\u2014the maximum severity\u2014on the International Nuclear Event Scale. The initial emergency response, together with later decontamination of the environment, involved more than 500,000 personnel and cost an estimated 18 billion roubles\u2014roughly US$68 billion in 2019, adjusted for inflation. Even though Chernobyl's health effects to the general population are uncertain, the World Health Organization predict an eventual 9,000 cancer related fatalities in Ukraine, Belarus and Russia."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Although often called a trilogy, the work was intended by Tolkien to be one volume of a two-volume set along with The Silmarillion.[T 3] For economic reasons, The Lord of the Rings was published over the course of a year from 29 July 1954 to 20 October 1955 in three volumes titled The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King. The work is divided internally into six books, two per volume, with several appendices of background material. Some later editions print the entire work in a single volume, following the author's original intent.\n Question: What are all the books in the Lord of the Rings trilogy?", "output": "The Lord of the Rings trilogy is comprised of: The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers and The Return of the King."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The franchise was founded in Philadelphia in 1883, replacing the team from Worcester, Massachusetts, in the National League. The team has played at several stadiums in the city, beginning with Recreation Park (1883\u20131886) and continuing at Baker Bowl (1887\u20131938); Shibe Park (which was renamed Connie Mack Stadium in 1953 in honor of the longtime Philadelphia Athletics manager Connie Mack) (1938\u20131970); Veterans Stadium (1971\u20132003), and now Citizens Bank Park (2004-present).\n Question: Given this reference text about the Philadelphia Phillies, how many stadiums have they had and where do they play currently?", "output": "The Phillies have played in five different stadium throughout their history in Philadelphia. They currently play at Citizens Bank Park."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wilbur Snyder (September 15, 1929 \u2013 December 25, 1991) was an American football player and professional wrestler.\n\nWrestling career\nSnyder's wrestling debut occurred during football's 1953 off-season. He was trained by Sandor Szabo and Warren Bockwinkel in Southern California. In 1954, Snyder retired from football completely to pursue a full-time career in wrestling. Part of his in-ring persona included the use of many football tactics, and it garnered Snyder a lot of national attention. He had already been a regional champion in Montreal, Quebec, Canada when he made a name for himself by defeating Verne Gagne and winning the United States Championship at Marigold Arena in Chicago on April 7, 1956.\n Question: Was Wilbur Snyder a good wrestler", "output": "Wilbur Snyder (September 15, 1929 \u2013 December 25, 1991) was an American football player and professional wrestler.\n\nSnyder's wrestling debut occurred during football's 1953 off-season. He was trained by Sandor Szabo and Warren Bockwinkel in Southern California. In 1954, Snyder retired from football completely to pursue a full-time career in wrestling. Part of his in-ring persona included the use of many football tactics, and it garnered Snyder a lot of national attention. \n\nHe had already been a regional champion in Montreal, Quebec, Canada when he made a name for himself by defeating Verne Gagne and winning the United States Championship at Marigold Arena in Chicago on April 7, 1956."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Endosymbiosis is any symbiotic relationship in which one symbiont lives within the tissues of the other, either within the cells or extracellularly. Examples include diverse microbiomes: rhizobia, nitrogen-fixing bacteria that live in root nodules on legume roots; actinomycetes, nitrogen-fixing bacteria such as Frankia, which live in alder root nodules; single-celled algae inside reef-building corals; and bacterial endosymbionts that provide essential nutrients to about 10%\u201315% of insects.[citation needed]\n\nIn endosymbiosis, the host cell lacks some of the nutrients which the endosymbiont provides. As a result, the host favors endosymbiont's growth processes within itself by producing some specialized cells. These cells affect the genetic composition of the host in order to regulate the increasing population of the endosymbionts and ensure that these genetic changes are passed onto the offspring via vertical transmission (heredity).\n Question: Is endosymbiosis bad?", "output": "No, endosymbiosis is a symbiotic relationship where the internal symbiont or the endosymbiont provides essential nutrients to the host. For example, a bacteria can provide necessary nutrients to an insect."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hoober Stand is a 30-metre-high (98 ft) tower and Grade II* listed building on a ridge in Wentworth, South Yorkshire in northern England. It was designed by Henry Flitcroft for the Whig aristocrat Thomas Watson-Wentworth, Earl of Malton (later the 1st Marquess of Rockingham) to commemorate the quashing of the 1745 Jacobite rebellion. It lies close to his country seat Wentworth Woodhouse. Its site is approximately 157 metres (515 ft) above sea level and from the top there are long-distance views on a clear day. Hoober Stand is one of several follies in and around Wentworth Woodhouse park; the others include Needle's Eye and Keppel's Column. Sidney Oldall Addy, the Sheffield author calls the structure Woburn Stand in his 1888 book, A glossary of words used in the neighbourhood of Sheffield.\n Question: Where is Hoober Stand located?", "output": "Wentworth, South Yorkshire in northern England"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The autism spectrum, often referred to as just autism, autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or sometimes autism spectrum condition (ASC), identifies a loosely defined cluster of neurodevelopmental disorders characterized by challenges in social interaction, verbal and nonverbal communication, and often repetitive behaviors and restricted interests. Other common features include unusual responses to sensory stimuli and a preference for sameness or unusual adherence to routines.\nAutism is generally understood to be a spectrum disorder, as it can manifest differently in each person: any autistic individual is likely to show some, but not all, of the characteristics associated with it, and the person may exhibit them to varying degrees and frequencies.There is large variation in the support needs of autistic people, and some are nonspeaking, while others have proficient spoken language.\n Question: What is Autism and how varied is the spectrum?", "output": "Autism is a highly variable neurodevelopmental disorder that is generally thought to cover a broad and deep spectrum, manifesting very differently from one person to another. Some have high support needs, may be non-speaking, and experience developmental delays; this is more likely with other co-existing diagnoses. Others have relatively low support needs; they may have more typical speech-language and intellectual skills but atypical social/conversation skills, narrowly focused interests, and wordy, pedantic communication.They may still require significant support in some areas of their lives. The spectrum model should not be understood as a continuum running from mild to severe, but instead means that autism can present very differently in each individual.How a person presents can depend on context, and may vary over time."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In photography, exposure value (EV) is a number that represents a combination of a camera's shutter speed and f-number, such that all combinations that yield the same exposure have the same EV (for any fixed scene luminance). Exposure value is also used to indicate an interval on the photographic exposure scale, with a difference of 1 EV corresponding to a standard power-of-2 exposure step, commonly referred to as a stop.\n\nThe EV concept was developed by the German shutter manufacturer Friedrich Deckel in the 1950s (Gebele 1958; Ray 2000, 318). Its intent was to simplify choosing among equivalent camera exposure settings by replacing combinations of shutter speed and f-number (e.g., 1/125 s at f/16) with a single number (e.g., 15). On some lenses with leaf shutters, the process was further simplified by allowing the shutter and aperture controls to be linked such that, when one was changed, the other was automatically adjusted to maintain the same exposure. This was especially helpful to beginners with limited understanding of the effects of shutter speed and aperture and the relationship between them. But it was also useful for experienced photographers who might choose a shutter speed to stop motion or an f-number for depth of field, because it allowed for faster adjustment\u2014without the need for mental calculations\u2014and reduced the chance of error when making the adjustment.\n Question: What are the main functions on a DSLR camera that affect the correct the exposure of an image?", "output": "If a DSLR camera is not set to 'Automatic' mode, there are 3 primary functions that need to be considered when deciding on the correct exposure for your image.\n1) the Aperture - how wide the aperture on the lens is set determines how much light can pass through the aperture. A small aperture (e.g. f/16) allows less light to reach the sensor as opposed to a wide aperture (e.g f/2.4).\n2) the Shutter Speed - how long the shutter is allowed to remain open after you depress the release on the camera. A short exposure time (e.g. 1/1000 sec) will allow less light to hit the cameras sensor whilst a long exposure (e.g. 1/4 sec) will let more light hit the sensor\n3) the ISO setting - this setting is used to control how sensitive the sensor is to light hitting it. A low ISO setting (e.g. ISO 200) is much less sensitive than a high ISO setting (e.g. ISO 1600) which means less light is required to capture the for the image on the sensor.\nAll 3 of these functions work in tandem to ensure the correct exposure value is created based on the image and effect you are trying to create."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Banda Deul is an 11th-century temple in Banda village (also called Deulghera) in the Raghunathpur II CD block in the Raghunathpur subdivision of the Purulia district in the Indian state of West Bengal.\n\nThere is a temple at Banda, which is described by the Archaeological Society of India as a rekha deul of triratha variety in sandstone. \u201cThe temple is richly decorated, the themes being creepers, scroll work and stylised chaitya window.\u201d The temple was built around the 11th century.\n\nThe temple had a mandapa which has largely collapsed, However, eight pillars are still there supporting the cross beams. The temple has a water outlet with a makara (crocodile) head.\n\nAccording to the List of Monuments of National Importance in West Bengal the old temple at Banda is an ASI listed monument.\n Question: In which Indian state is Banda Deul located in?", "output": "West Bengal"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Araber Rahaman (died 28 April 2013) was an Indian politician. He was the Tripura MLA for Boxanagar from 1978\u20131988.\n Question: What was the profession of Araber Rahaman?", "output": "He was a politician."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A degree of uncertainty surrounds the origin of the English word \"saffron\". It might stem from the 12th-century Old French term safran, which comes from the Latin word safranum, from the Arabic (\u0632\u064e\u0639\u0652\u0641\u064e\u0631\u064e\u0627\u0646), za'far\u0101n, which comes from the Persian word zarparan meaning \"gold strung\" (implying either the golden stamens of the flower or the golden color it creates when used as flavor).\n Question: Given this paragraph about Saffron, where does this name originally come from?", "output": "It comes from the Persian word zarparan"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: NIKStewart (who rebranded her name from Treveen Stewart) is a model from the Cayman Islands. In 2013, she was the first winner of the Caribbean's Next Top Model competition to come from the Cayman Islands. Born in Grand Cayman, Stewart moved to Jamaica in fifth grade and then returned to the Cayman Islands for high school. She won a regional modeling contest at 15 which allowed her to sign with a US modeling agency. In 2015, she landed a deal with Nike and works in New York and Chicago for them. Her other campaign work includes Fila, bMobile, Kohls and Rock & Republic.\n Question: What country did NIKStewart live during middle school?", "output": "NIKStewart lived in Jamaica during middle school (6th - 8th grade)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Rain is water droplets that have condensed from atmospheric water vapor and then fall under gravity. Rain is a major component of the water cycle and is responsible for depositing most of the fresh water on the Earth. It provides water for hydroelectric power plants, crop irrigation, and suitable conditions for many types of ecosystems.\n Question: Given this paragraph about rain.  How is rain formed?", "output": "Rain is water droplets that have condensed from atmospheric water vapor and then fall under gravity"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Scrub Daddy is a cleaning product company best known for an eponymous sponge it manufactures in the shape of a smiley face. The product is made of a polymer which changes texture \u2013 firm in cold water and soft in warm water. As of 2019, Scrub Daddy had the highest revenue of any product successfully pitched on the ABC reality show Shark Tank.\n\nHistory\nAfter damaging the exterior of a vehicle when cleaning the outside, detailer Aaron Krause invented a line of buffing and polishing pads. The company was acquired by 3M in August 2008. 3M did not purchase a line of sponges Krause had invented, leaving them to sit in his factory. Five years later, Krause used the remaining sponges to clean his dishes and lawn furniture. According to Krause, this is when he \"realized his multi-million dollar idea.\"\n\nAccording to the company's website, Scrub Daddy, Inc. was founded in 2012 with grassroots marketing. On the Shark Tank episode originally airing in October 2012, Lori Greiner made a 20% equity stake deal with Krause for $200,000. The following day, Greiner and Krause sold out of 42,000 sponges in under seven minutes on QVC. Greiner then helped Scrub Daddy to be sold in retail stores such as Bed, Bath & Beyond. In January 2017, Scrub Daddy's total revenues surpassed $100 million \u2013 the highest of any Shark Tank product. As of October 2019, the company's lifetime sales were $209 million. In Season 14 Episode 13, it was reported that Scrub Daddy in 10 years has 273 employees, 160 products, sold in 257,000 retail locations, top 5 grossing company in shark tank history, doing over $670m in retail sales since launch.\n Question: Given a reference text about Scrub Daddy, tell me the details on the deal the founder made on Shark Tank.", "output": "Aaron Krause, the founder of Scrub Daddy, made a deal with Lori Greiner on Shark Tank, giving her 20% equity in the company for $200,000."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Reid attended the University of Virginia, where she made 83 appearances and scored two goals. Her senior year, she started all 21 games, scored a golden goal at No. 2 West Virginia, and had two game-winning assists. Also in her senior year, she was named to the All-ACC second team and the ACC Women's Soccer All-Academic team.\n Question: Given a reference text about Megan Reid, American professional soccer player, what college did she attend and how many soccer games did she start in her senior year of college?", "output": "Reid attended the University of Virginia and during her senior year she started all 21 games."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bachendri Pal (born 24 May 1954) is an Indian mountaineer. She is the first Indian woman to climb the summit of world's highest mountain, Mount Everest, what she did in 1984. She was awarded the third highest civilian award Padma Bhushan by Government of India in 2019.\n\nBachendri Pal was born to a Bhotiya family on 24 May 1954 in Nakuri village, in the Uttarkashi district in the Indian state of Uttarakhand. She was one of five children to Hansa Devi, and Shri Kishan Singh Pal, \u2013 a border tradesman who supplied groceries from India to Tibet. She was born only five days prior to the first anniversary of the original ascension of Mount Everest by Tenzing Norgay and Edmund Hillary. She completed her M.A. and B.Ed. from D.A.V. Post Graduate College, Dehradun. She started mountaineering at the age of 12 when, along with her friends, she scaled a 13,123 ft (3,999.9 m) high peak during a school picnic. On the invitation of her school principal, she was sent to college for higher studies and, during her course at Nehru Institute of Mountaineering, became the first female to climb Mount Gangotri 23,419 ft (7,138.1 m) and Mount Rudragaria 19,091 ft (5,818.9 m) in 1982. In that time, she became an instructor at the National Adventure Foundation (NAF), which had set up an adventure school for training women to learn mountaineering.\n\nPal encountered stiff opposition from her family and relatives when she chose a career as a professional mountaineer rather than a schoolteacher. However, she soon found success in her chosen field when, after summiting a number of smaller peaks, she was selected to join India's first mixed-gender team to attempt an expedition to Mount Everest in 1984.\n\nBachendri Pal has been conferred with following awards and accolades:\n\nGold Medal for Excellence in Mountaineering by the Indian Mountaineering Foundation (1984)\nPadma Shri \u2013 the fourth highest civilian award of the Republic of India (1984)\nGold Medal by the Department of Education, Government of Uttar Pradesh, India (1985)\nArjuna Award by the Government of India (1986)\nCalcutta Ladies Study Group Award (1986)\nListed in the Guinness Book of World Records (1990)\nNational Adventure Award by the Government of India (1994)\nYash Bharti Award by the Government of Uttar Pradesh, India (1995)\nHonorary Doctorate from the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University (formerly known as Garhwal University) (1997)\nShe is the first recipient of the Virangana Lakshmibai Rashtriya Samman 2013\u201314, which was given by the Ministry of Culture, Government of Madhya Pradesh, India at Gwalior on 18 June 2013 for her personal achievement in adventure sports and women's upliftment in the country.\nPadma Bhushan \u2013 the third highest civilian award of the Republic of India (2019)\nBharat Gaurav Award by East Bengal Club: 2014\n Question: From the given text, please tell me what were Bachendari Pal's accomplishments?", "output": "Bachendari Pal is an Indian mountaineer. Despite stiff opposition from her family, she still chose to pursue professional mountaineer as a career. Some of her noted accomplishments are:\n1. She is the first Indian woman to climb the summit of world's highest mountain, Mount Everest, in 1984.\n2. While pursuing her course at Nehru Institute of Mountaineering, she became the first female to climb Mount Gangotri 23,419 ft (7,138.1 m) and Mount Rudragaria 19,091 ft (5,818.9 m) in 1982.\n\nBachendari Pal has also been conferred with several awards and accolades. She was awarded \"Padma Shri\" (fourth highest civilian award of Republic of India) in 1984 and \"Padma Bhushan\" (third highest civilian award of Republic of India) in 2019."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Chevron traces its history back to the 1870s. The company grew quickly after the breakup of Standard Oil by acquiring companies and partnering with others, eventually becoming one of the Seven Sisters that dominated the global petroleum industry from the mid-1940s to the 1970s. In 1985, Socal merged with the Pittsburgh-based Gulf Oil and rebranded as Chevron; the newly merged company later merged with Texaco in 2001. Today, Chevron manufactures and sells fuels, lubricants, additives, and petrochemicals, primarily in Western North America, the U.S. Gulf Coast, Southeast Asia, South Korea and Australia. In 2018, the company produced an average of 791,000 barrels of net oil-equivalent per day in United States.\n Question: Given that the current year is 2023, how old is Chevron?", "output": "Because the current year is 2023 and Chevron traces its history back to the 1870s, Chevron is roughly between 143 and 153 years old."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ainley's storm petrel (Hydrobates cheimomnestes) is a species of seabird in the family Hydrobatidae. It breeds in the winter on Guadalupe Island off the western coast of Mexico. It ranges south to the Gal\u00e1pagos Islands. It is considered by some authorities to be a subspecies of Leach's storm petrel.\n\nTaxonomy\nThis species was first described as a subspecies of Leach's storm petrel (Hydrobates leucorhoa), by the United States marine ornithologist David Ainley. He distinguished it on grounds of physiology, morphology and voice, separating it from Townsend's storm petrel (Hydrobates socorroensis) which breeds on the same islands in the summer whereas Hydrobates cheimomnestes breeds in the winter. The species name cheimomnestes means \"winter suitor\", in reference to the fact that this bird breeds in the winter. There is still disagreement among authorities as to whether it should be regarded as a separate species. It is recognised as such by Avibase, but not by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. It was formerly defined in the genus Oceanodroma before that genus was synonymized with Hydrobates.\n Question: Given a reference text about Ainley's storm petrel, tell me when and where they breed.", "output": "Ainley's storm petrel breed on Guadalupe Island in the winter."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Operation Aurora was a series of cyber attacks conducted by advanced persistent threats such as the Elderwood Group based in Beijing, China, with ties to the People's Liberation Army. First publicly disclosed by Google on January 12, 2010, in a blog post, the attacks began in mid-2009 and continued through December 2009.\n\nThe attack was aimed at dozens of other organizations, of which Adobe Systems, Akamai Technologies, Juniper Networks, and Rackspace have publicly confirmed that they were targeted. According to media reports, Yahoo, Symantec, Northrop Grumman, Morgan Stanley, and Dow Chemical were also among the targets.\n\nAs a result of the attack, Google stated in its blog that it plans to operate a completely uncensored version of its search engine in China \"within the law, if at all,\" and acknowledged that if this is not possible, it may leave China and close its Chinese offices. Official Chinese sources claimed this was part of a strategy developed by the U.S. government.\n\nThe attack was named \"Operation Aurora\" by Dmitri Alperovitch, Vice President of Threat Research at cybersecurity company McAfee. Research by McAfee Labs discovered that \"Aurora\" was part of the file path on the attacker's machine that was included in two of the malware binaries McAfee said were associated with the attack. \"We believe the name was the internal name the attacker(s) gave to this operation,\" McAfee Chief Technology Officer George Kurtz said in a blog post.\n\nAccording to McAfee, the primary goal of the attack was to gain access to and potentially modify source code repositories at these high-tech, security, and defense contractor companies. \"[The SCMs] were wide open,\" says Alperovitch. \"No one ever thought about securing them, yet these were the crown jewels of most of these companies in many ways\u2014much more valuable than any financial or personally identifiable data that they may have and spend so much time and effort protecting.\"\n\nHistory\n\nFlowers left outside Google China's headquarters after its announcement it might leave the country\nOn January 12, 2010, Google revealed on its blog that it had been the victim of a cyber attack. The company said the attack occurred in mid-December and originated from China. Google stated that over 20 other companies had been attacked; other sources have since cited that more than 34 organizations were targeted. As a result of the attack, Google said it was reviewing its business in China. On the same day, United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton issued a brief statement condemning the attacks and requesting a response from China.\n\nOn January 13, 2010, the news agency All Headline News reported that the United States Congress plans to investigate Google's allegations that the Chinese government used the company's service to spy on human rights activists.\n\nIn Beijing, visitors left flowers outside of Google's office. However, these were later removed, with a Chinese security guard stating that this was an \"illegal flower tribute\". The Chinese government has yet to issue a formal response, although an anonymous official stated that China was seeking more information on Google's intentions.\n\nAttackers involved\nFurther information: Cyberwarfare by China\nTechnical evidence including IP addresses, domain names, malware signatures, and other factors, show Elderwood was behind the Operation Aurora attack. The \"Elderwood\" group was named by Symantec (after a source-code variable used by the attackers), and is referred to as the \"Beijing Group\" by Dell Secureworks. The group obtained some of Google's source code, as well as access to information about Chinese activists. Elderwood also targeted numerous other companies in the shipping, aeronautics, arms, energy, manufacturing, engineering, electronics, financial, and software sectors.\n\nThe \"APT\" designation for the Chinese threat actors responsible for attacking Google is APT17.\n\nElderwood specializes in attacking and infiltrating second-tier defense industry suppliers that make electronic or mechanical components for top defense companies. Those firms then become a cyber \"stepping stone\" to gain access to top-tier defense contractors. One attack procedure used by Elderwood is to infect legitimate websites frequented by employees of the target company \u2013 a so-called \"water hole\" attack, just as lions stake out a watering hole for their prey. Elderwood infects these less-secure sites with malware that downloads to a computer that clicks on the site. After that, the group searches inside the network to which the infected computer is connected, finding and then downloading executives' e-mails and critical documents on company plans, decisions, acquisitions, and product designs.\n\nAttack analysis\nIn its blog posting, Google stated that some of its intellectual property had been stolen. It suggested that the attackers were interested in accessing Gmail accounts of Chinese dissidents. According to the Financial Times, two accounts used by Ai Weiwei had been attacked, their contents read and copied; his bank accounts were investigated by state security agents who claimed he was under investigation for \"unspecified suspected crimes\". However, the attackers were only able to view details on two accounts and those details were limited to things such as the subject line and the accounts' creation date.\n\nSecurity experts immediately noted the sophistication of the attack. Two days after the attack became public, McAfee reported that the attackers had exploited purported zero-day vulnerabilities (unfixed and previously unknown to the target system developers) in Internet Explorer and dubbed the attack \"Operation Aurora\". A week after the report by McAfee, Microsoft issued a fix for the issue, and admitted that they had known about the security hole used since September. Additional vulnerabilities were found in Perforce, the source code revision software used by Google to manage their source code.\n\nVeriSign's iDefense Labs claimed that the attacks were perpetrated by \"agents of the Chinese state or proxies thereof\".\n\nAccording to a diplomatic cable from the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, a Chinese source reported that the Chinese Politburo directed the intrusion into Google's computer systems. The cable suggested that the attack was part of a coordinated campaign executed by \"government operatives, public security experts and Internet outlaws recruited by the Chinese government.\" The report suggested that it was part of an ongoing campaign in which attackers have \"broken into American government computers and those of Western allies, the Dalai Lama and American businesses since 2002.\" According to The Guardian's reporting on the leak, the attacks were \"orchestrated by a senior member of the Politburo who typed his own name into the global version of the search engine and found articles criticising him personally.\"\n\nOnce a victim's system was compromised, a backdoor connection that masqueraded as an SSL connection made connections to command and control servers running in Illinois, Texas, and Taiwan, including machines that were running under stolen Rackspace customer accounts. The victim's machine then began exploring the protected corporate intranet that it was a part of, searching for other vulnerable systems as well as sources of intellectual property, specifically the contents of source code repositories.\n\nThe attacks were thought to have definitively ended on Jan 4 when the command and control servers were taken down, although it is not known at this point whether or not the attackers intentionally shut them down. However, the attacks were still occurring as of February 2010.\n\nResponse and aftermath\nThe German, Australian, and French governments publicly issued warnings to users of Internet Explorer after the attack, advising them to use alternative browsers at least until a fix for the security hole was made. The German, Australian, and French governments considered all versions of Internet Explorer vulnerable or potentially vulnerable.\n\nIn an advisory on January 14, 2010, Microsoft said that attackers targeting Google and other U.S. companies used software that exploits a hole in Internet Explorer. The vulnerability affects Internet Explorer versions 6, 7, and 8 on Windows 7, Vista, Windows XP, Server 2003, Server 2008 R2, as well as IE 6 Service Pack 1 on Windows 2000 Service Pack 4.\n\nThe Internet Explorer exploit code used in the attack has been released into the public domain, and has been incorporated into the Metasploit Framework penetration testing tool. A copy of the exploit was uploaded to Wepawet, a service for detecting and analyzing web-based malware operated by the computer security group at the University of California, Santa Barbara. \"The public release of the exploit code increases the possibility of widespread attacks using the Internet Explorer vulnerability,\" said George Kurtz, CTO of McAfee, of the attack. \"The now public computer code may help cybercriminals craft attacks that use the vulnerability to compromise Windows systems.\"\n\nSecurity company Websense said it identified \"limited public use\" of the unpatched IE vulnerability in drive-by attacks against users who strayed onto malicious Web sites. According to Websense, the attack code it spotted is the same as the exploit that went public last week.[clarification needed] \"Internet Explorer users currently face a real and present danger due to the public disclosure of the vulnerability and release of attack code, increasing the possibility of widespread attacks,\" said George Kurtz, chief technology officer of McAfee, in a blog update. Confirming this speculation, Websense Security Labs identified additional sites using the exploit on January 19. According to reports from Ahnlab, the second URL was spread through the Instant Messenger network Misslee Messenger, a popular IM client in South Korea.\n\nResearchers have created attack code that exploits the vulnerability in Internet Explorer 7 (IE7) and IE8\u2014even when Microsoft's recommended defensive measure (Data Execution Prevention (DEP)) is turned on.[dubious \u2013 discuss] According to Dino Dai Zovi, a security vulnerability researcher, \"even the newest IE8 isn't safe from attack if it's running on Windows XP Service Pack 2 (SP2) or earlier, or on Windows Vista RTM (release to manufacturing), the version Microsoft shipped in January 2007.\"\n\nMicrosoft admitted that the security hole used had been known to them since September. Work on an update was prioritized and on Thursday, January 21, 2010, Microsoft released a security patch aiming to counter this weakness, the published exploits based on it and a number of other privately reported vulnerabilities. They did not state if any of the latter had been used or published by exploiters or whether these had any particular relation to the Aurora operation, but the entire cumulative update was termed critical for most versions of Windows, including Windows 7.\n\nSecurity researchers continued to investigate the attacks. HBGary, a security firm, released a report in which they claimed to have found some significant markers that might help identify the code developer. The firm also said that the code was Chinese language based but could not be specifically tied to any government entity.\n\nOn February 19, 2010, a security expert investigating the cyber-attack on Google, has claimed that the people behind the attack were also responsible for the cyber-attacks made on several Fortune 100 companies in the past one and a half years. They have also tracked the attack back to its point of origin, which seems to be two Chinese schools, Shanghai Jiao Tong University and Lanxiang Vocational School. As highlighted by The New York Times, both of these schools have ties with the Chinese search engine Baidu, a rival of Google China. Both Lanxiang Vocational and Jiaotong University have denied the allegation.\n\nIn March 2010, Symantec, which was helping investigate the attack for Google, identified Shaoxing as the source of 21.3% of all (12 billion) malicious emails sent throughout the world.\n\nGoogle retrospective\nOn October 3, 2022, Google on YouTube released a six-episode series covering the events that occurred during Operation Aurora, with commentary from insiders who dealt with the attack, though the series primary focus was to reassure the Google-using public that measures are in place to counter hacking attempts.\n Question: Given this article about Operation Aurora, How was the operation named?", "output": "The attack was named \"Operation Aurora\" by Dmitri Alperovitch, Vice President of Threat Research at cybersecurity company McAfee. Research by McAfee Labs discovered that \"Aurora\" was part of the file path on the attacker's machine that was included in two of the malware binaries McAfee said were associated with the attack. \"We believe the name was the internal name the attacker(s) gave to this operation,\" McAfee Chief Technology Officer George Kurtz said in a blog post."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Portugal's overseas presence in sub-Saharan Africa (most notably in Angola, Cape Verde, Mozambique, Guinea-Bissau, and S\u00e3o Tom\u00e9 and Pr\u00edncipe) lasted from the 16th century to 1975, after the Estado Novo regime was overthrown in a military coup in Lisbon. Rhodesia unilaterally declared independence from the United Kingdom in 1965, under the white minority government of Ian Smith, but was not internationally recognized as an independent state (as Zimbabwe) until 1980, when black nationalists gained power after a bitter guerrilla war. Although South Africa was one of the first African countries to gain independence, the state remained under the control of the country's white minority through a system of racial segregation known as apartheid until 1994.\n Question: What is apartheid, and which country experienced it?", "output": "Apartheid is a system of racial segregation in South Africa."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Although \"sauerkraut\" is from a German word (Sauerkraut), the dish did not originate in Germany. Some claim fermenting cabbage suan cai was already practised in the days of the building of the Great Wall of China and that the practice was likely transmitted from China to Europe by the Tartars. However, the Romans, as previously noted, pickled forms of cabbage, and were the more likely source of modern-day sauerkraut  It then took root in Central and Eastern European cuisines, but also in other countries including the Netherlands, where it is known as zuurkool, and France, where the name became choucroute. The English name is borrowed from German where it means \"sour cabbage\". The names in Slavic and other Central and Eastern European languages have similar meanings with the German word: \"fermented cabbage\" (Albanian: lak\u00ebr turshi, Azerbaijani: k\u0259l\u0259m tur\u015fusu, Belarusian: \u043a\u0432\u0430\u0448\u0430\u043d\u0430\u044f \u043a\u0430\u043f\u0443\u0441\u0442\u0430, Czech: kysan\u00e9 zel\u00ed, Lithuanian: rauginti kop\u016bstai, Russian: \u043a\u0432\u0430\u0448\u0435\u043d\u0430\u044f \u043a\u0430\u043f\u0443\u0441\u0442\u0430, tr. kva\u0161enaja kapusta, Turk\u0131sh: lahana tur\u015fusu, Romanian: varz\u0103 murat\u0103, Persian: kalam tor\u015f, Ukrainian: \u043a\u0432\u0430\u0448\u0435\u043d\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u043f\u0443\u0441\u0442\u0430) or \"sour cabbage\" (Bulgarian: \u043a\u0438\u0441\u0435\u043b\u043e \u0437\u0435\u043b\u0435, Estonian: hapukapsas, Finnish: hapankaali, Hungarian: savany\u00fak\u00e1poszta, Latvian: sk\u0101b\u0113ti k\u0101posti, Macedonian: \u0440\u0430\u0441\u043e\u043b / \u043a\u0438\u0441\u0435\u043b\u0430 \u0437\u0435\u043b\u043a\u0430, Polish: kapusta kiszona, Russian: \u043a\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0430\u044f \u043a\u0430\u043f\u0443\u0441\u0442\u0430, tr. kislaya kapusta, Serbo-Croatian: \u043a\u0438\u0441\u0435\u043b\u0438 \u043a\u0443\u043f\u0443\u0441 / \u043a\u0438\u0441\u0435\u043b\u043e \u0437\u0435\u043b\u0458\u0435, kiseli kupus / kiselo zelje, Slovak: kysl\u00e1 kapusta, Slovene: kislo zelje, Ukrainian: \u043a\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u043f\u0443\u0441\u0442\u0430, kysla kapusta).\n Question: Given this paragraph, where did the German dish sauerkraut originate from?", "output": "The Romans are believed to be the most likely origin of the German dish called sauerkraut."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Tour de France (French pronunciation: \u200b[tu\u0281 d\u0259 f\u0281\u0251\u0303s]) is an annual men's multiple-stage bicycle race primarily held in France, while also occasionally passing through nearby countries. Like the other Grand Tours (the Giro d'Italia and the Vuelta a Espa\u00f1a), it consists of 21 stages, each a day long, over the course of 23 days, coinciding with the Bastille Day holiday. It is the oldest of the Grand Tours and generally considered the most prestigious.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Tour De France, how long is the race", "output": "The tour de france is 21 stages long, with each stage taking one day to complete. The race takes 23 days from start to finish due to 2 rest days the riders receive."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The women's individual competition at the 2018 Asian Games in Jakarta, Indonesia was held from 23 August to 26 August (inclusive) at the Pondok Indah Golf & Country Club.\n Question: How many days was the women's individual competition?", "output": "4 days. 26-23+1 = 4. Counting 23, 24, 25, 26 equals 4 days."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Republic of Finland has been a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) since 4 April 2023. Finland had formal relations with NATO since 1994, when it joined the Partnership for Peace program, and has been a member of the European Union (EU), which largely overlaps with NATO in membership, since 1995.\n Question: Given a reference text about NATO, when did Finland become a member?", "output": "April 4, 2023"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Asperger syndrome (AS), also known as Asperger's, is a neurodevelopmental condition characterized by significant difficulties in social interaction and nonverbal communication, along with restricted and repetitive patterns of behaviour and interests. The syndrome is no longer recognised as a diagnosis in itself, having been merged with other conditions into autism spectrum disorder (ASD). It was considered to differ from other diagnoses that were merged into ASD by relatively unimpaired spoken language and intelligence.\n\nThe syndrome was named after the Austrian pediatrician Hans Asperger, who, in 1944, described children in his care who struggled to form friendships, did not understand others' gestures or feelings, engaged in one-sided conversations about their favourite interests, and were clumsy. In 1994, the diagnosis of Asperger's was included in the fourth edition (DSM-IV) of the American Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders; however, with the publication of DSM-5 in 2013 the syndrome was removed, and the symptoms are now included within autism spectrum disorder along with classic autism and pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS). It was similarly merged into autism spectrum disorder in the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11) as of 2021.\n\nThe exact cause of Asperger's is poorly understood. While it has high heritability, the underlying genetics have not been determined conclusively. Environmental factors are also believed to play a role. Brain imaging has not identified a common underlying condition. There is no single treatment, and the UK's National Health Service (NHS) guidelines suggest that 'treatment' of any form of autism should not be a goal, since autism is not 'a disease that can be removed or cured'. According to the Royal College of Psychiatrists, while co-occurring conditions might require treatment, 'management of autism itself is chiefly about the provision of the education, training and social support/care required to improve the person's ability to function in the everyday world'. The effectiveness of particular interventions for autism is supported by only limited data. Interventions may include social skills training, cognitive behavioral therapy, physical therapy, speech therapy, parent training, and medications for associated problems, such as mood or anxiety. Autistic characteristics tend to become less obvious in adulthood, but social and communication difficulties usually persist.\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asperger_syndrome\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Asperger syndrome, what disorder has it merged into?", "output": "It has been merged with other conditions into autism spectrum disorder (ASD)"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Tardar Sauce (April 4, 2012 \u2013 May 14, 2019), nicknamed Grumpy Cat, was an American Internet celebrity cat. She was known for her permanently \"grumpy\" facial appearance, which was caused by an underbite and feline dwarfism. She came to prominence when a photograph of her was posted on September 22, 2012, on social news website Reddit by Bryan Bundesen, the brother of her owner Tabatha Bundesen. \"Lolcats\" and parodies created from the photograph by Reddit users became popular. She was the subject of a popular Internet meme in which humorously negative, cynical images were made from photographs of her.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Grumpy Cat, tell me the cat's real name.", "output": "Grumpy Cat was actually a nickname for the famous internet celebrity meme cat. Her real name was Tardar Sauce."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: On 11 April 2001, the Australian and American Samoan national association football teams played each other in an Oceanian qualifying match for the 2002 FIFA World Cup. The match was played at the International Sports Stadium in Coffs Harbour, Australia. Australia set a world record for the largest victory in an international football match, winning the game 31\u20130. Australia's Archie Thompson also broke the record for most goals scored by a player in an international match by scoring 13 goals. David Zdrilic, the scorer of eight goals in the match, scored the second-highest number of goals in an international match since World War I.\n Question: How many goals did Archie Thompson's team mates score?", "output": "Since Archie Thompson scored 13 goals, his teammates scored 18 goals"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The use of speed limits predates both motorized vehicles, and enforcement of the laws. Facing the invention of the automobile, many nations enacted speed limit laws, and appropriate measures to enforce them. The Locomotive Acts in the UK set speed limits for vehicles, and later codified enforcement methods. The first Locomotive Act, passed in 1861, set a speed limit of 10 miles per hour (16 km/h) in uninhabited areas, and 5 miles per hour (8.0 km/h) within towns. This act also included the value of fines for violations of the law.\n Question: Given this paragraph about speed limits, what was first law regulating speed limits in UK, when was it enacted and what speed limits it set.", "output": "The first speed limit law in UK was called Locomotive Act, passed in 1861, set a speed limit of 10 miles per hour (16 km/h) in uninhabited areas, and 5 miles per hour (8.0 km/h) within towns."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The domestication of cattle in Africa preceded agriculture and seems to have existed alongside hunter-gatherer cultures. It is speculated that by 6000 BCE, cattle were domesticated in North Africa. In the Sahara-Nile complex, people domesticated many animals, including the donkey and a small screw-horned goat which was common from Algeria to Nubia.\nBetween 10,000 and 9,000 BCE, pottery was independently invented in the region of Mali in the savannah of West Africa.\nIn the steppes and savannahs of the Sahara and Sahel in Northern West Africa, people possibly ancestral to modern Nilo-Saharan and Mand\u00e9 cultures started to collect wild millet, around 8000 to 6000 BCE. Later, gourds, watermelons, castor beans, and cotton were also collected. Sorghum was first domesticated in Eastern Sudan around 4000 BCE, in one of the earliest instances of agriculture in human history. Its cultivation would gradually spread across Africa, before spreading to India around 2000 BCE.\n Question: In Africa, were cattle domesticated before or after agriculture?", "output": "In Africa, cattle were domesticated before agriculture."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Laurens Willy Symons (born 28 August 2001) is a Belgian professional footballer who plays as a forward for the reserve team of Mechelen.\n\nOn 5 February 2018, Symons signed his first professional contract with Lokeren, having joined their youth academy in 2015. Symons made his professional debut for Lokeren in a 2\u20131 Belgian First Division A loss to Waasland-Beveren on 22 December 2018.\n Question: Which country is Laurens Willy Symons  from?", "output": "Belgium"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The artificer is a playable character class in the Dungeons & Dragons (D&D) fantasy role-playing game. The Artificer first appeared as a full class in the 3.5 edition of D&D and was introduced in the Eberron campaign setting. The artificer is a unique base class that reflects many of the core themes of Eberron.\n Question: When did the Artificer class first appear in D&D", "output": "The Artificer first appeared as a full class in the 3.5 edition of D&D and was introduced in the Eberron campaign setting."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: \"Virtual reality (VR) is a simulated experience that employs pose tracking and 3D near-eye displays to give the user an immersive feel of a virtual world. Applications of virtual reality include entertainment (particularly video games), education (such as medical or military training) and business (such as virtual meetings). Other distinct types of VR-style technology include augmented reality and mixed reality, sometimes referred to as extended reality or XR, although definitions are currently changing due to the nascence of the industry.\n\nCurrently, standard virtual reality systems use either virtual reality headsets or multi-projected environments to generate some realistic images, sounds and other sensations that simulate a user's physical presence in a virtual environment. A person using virtual reality equipment is able to look around the artificial world, move around in it, and interact with virtual features or items. The effect is commonly created by VR headsets consisting of a head-mounted display with a small screen in front of the eyes, but can also be created through specially designed rooms with multiple large screens. Virtual reality typically incorporates auditory a\"\n Question: What can a person do in Virtual Reality?", "output": "A person using virtual reality equipment is able to look around the artificial world, move around in it, and interact with virtual features or items."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Magnesium is a chemical element with the symbol Mg and atomic number 12. It is a shiny gray metal having a low density, low melting point and high chemical reactivity. Like the other alkaline earth metals (group 2 of the periodic table) it occurs naturally only in combination with other elements and it almost always has an oxidation state of +2. It reacts readily with air to form a thin passivation coating of magnesium oxide that inhibits further corrosion of the metal. The free metal burns with a brilliant-white light. The metal is obtained mainly by electrolysis of magnesium salts obtained from brine. It is less dense than aluminium and is used primarily as a component in strong and lightweight alloys that contain aluminium.\n Question: Given this paragraph about magnesium, how is magnesium obtained?", "output": "Magnesium is mainly obtained by electrolysis of magnesium salts obtained from brine."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the United States between 1973 and 1999, September 16 is the most common birthday in the United States and December 25 the least common birthday (other than February 29, because of leap years). In 2011, October 5 and 6 were reported as the most frequently occurring birthdays.\n Question: What is the least common birthday in the United States?", "output": "The least common birthday in the United States between 1973 and 1999 was February 29 because of leap years."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Siliceous ooze is a type of biogenic pelagic sediment located on the deep ocean floor. Siliceous oozes are the least common of the deep sea sediments, and make up approximately 15% of the ocean floor. Oozes are defined as sediments which contain at least 30% skeletal remains of pelagic microorganisms. Siliceous oozes are largely composed of the silica based skeletons of microscopic marine organisms such as diatoms and radiolarians. Other components of siliceous oozes near continental margins may include terrestrially derived silica particles and sponge spicules. Siliceous oozes are composed of skeletons made from opal silica Si(O2), as opposed to calcareous oozes, which are made from skeletons of calcium carbonate organisms (i.e. coccolithophores). Silica (Si) is a bioessential element and is efficiently recycled in the marine environment through the silica cycle. Distance from land masses, water depth and ocean fertility are all factors that affect the opal silica content in seawater and the presence of siliceous oozes.\n Question: Given the following paragraph on siliceous ooze, how are oozes defined?", "output": "Oozes are defined as sediments which contain at least 30 percent skeletal remains of pelagic microorganisms."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pandemonium 2 is a psychedelic 2.5D game; specifically, it renders characters and environments with polygons and uses a 3D camera to create the appearance of 3-D, while gameplay is actually on a 2-D plane. Players can choose to be either Nikki or Fargus - who each have different specialties - with the option to change for each level. The player characters' abilities have been expanded over those in Pandemonium! with the ability to climb ropes, crawl, and pull themselves up ledges. During the quest, players can earn extra lives by collecting treasure.\n\nUnique powers collected during gameplay may replace, extend or add to previous powers, depending on which character is in play and which power has been obtained. The characters handle the unique powers differently. For instance, collecting the \"fire power\" allows Nikki to shoot destructive fireballs, while it grants Fargus invincibility and a deadly touch, but requires him to constantly move forward. Machines and equipment are also available throughout the game, although they are tied to certain areas.\n Question: How does the \"fire power\" help Fargus?", "output": "It grants Fargus invincibility and a deadly touch."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The blackbuck (Antilope cervicapra), also known as the Indian antelope, is an antelope native to India and Nepal. It inhabits grassy plains and lightly forested areas with perennial water sources. It stands up to 74 to 84 cm (29 to 33 in) high at the shoulder. Males weigh 20\u201357 kg (44\u2013126 lb), with an average of 38 kg (84 lb). Females are lighter, weighing 20\u201333 kg (44\u201373 lb) or 27 kg (60 lb) on average. Males have 35\u201375 cm (14\u201330 in) long corkscrew horns, and females occasionally develop horns, as well. The white fur on the chin and around the eyes is in sharp contrast with the black stripes on the face. Both sexes\u2019 coats feature a two-tone colouration; in males, the majority of the body is dark brown to black, with white circles around the eyes, white ears and tail, and the belly, lower jaw, and inner legs also white. Females and juveniles are yellowish-fawn to tan and display the same white areas, only with more of a beige tone than the males. Females also feature a more pronounced horizontal white side-stripe, starting around the shoulder and ending at the rump. The blackbuck is the sole living member of the genus Antilope and was scientifically described by Carl Linnaeus in 1758. Two subspecies are recognized.\n Question: Given a reference text about the blackbuck, tell me how big the males are.", "output": "Male blackbuck range from 44 to 126 pounds, are 29 to 33 inches tall, and have 14 to 30 inch long corkscrew horns."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Water fluoridation is the controlled adjustment of fluoride to a public water supply solely to reduce tooth decay. Fluoridated water contains fluoride at a level that is effective for preventing cavities; this can occur naturally or by adding fluoride. Fluoridated water operates on tooth surfaces: in the mouth, it creates low levels of fluoride in saliva, which reduces the rate at which tooth enamel demineralizes and increases the rate at which it remineralizes in the early stages of cavities. Typically a fluoridated compound is added to drinking water, a process that in the U.S. costs an average of about $1.17 per person-year. Defluoridation is needed when the naturally occurring fluoride level exceeds recommended limits. In 2011, the World Health Organization suggested a level of fluoride from 0.5 to 1.5 mg/L (milligrams per litre), depending on climate, local environment, and other sources of fluoride. Bottled water typically has unknown fluoride levels.\n\nTooth decay remains a major public health concern in most industrialized countries, affecting 60\u201390% of schoolchildren and the vast majority of adults. Water fluoridation reduces cavities in children, while efficacy in adults is less clear. A Cochrane review estimates a reduction in cavities when water fluoridation was used by children who had no access to other sources of fluoride to be 35% in baby teeth and 26% in permanent teeth. However, this was based on older studies which failed to control for numerous variables, such as increasing sugar consumption as well as other dental strategies. Most European countries have experienced substantial declines in tooth decay, though milk and salt fluoridation is widespread in lieu of water fluoridation. Recent studies suggest that water fluoridation, particularly in industrialized nations, may be unnecessary because topical fluorides (such as in toothpaste) are widely used, and caries rates have become low.\n\nAlthough fluoridation can cause dental fluorosis, which can alter the appearance of developing teeth or enamel fluorosis, the differences are mild and usually not an aesthetic or public health concern. There is no clear evidence of other side effects from water fluoridation. Fluoride's effects depend on the total daily intake of fluoride from all sources. Drinking water is typically the largest source; other methods of fluoride therapy include fluoridation of toothpaste, salt, and milk. The views on the most efficient method for community prevention of tooth decay are mixed. The Australian government states that water fluoridation is the most effective way to achieve fluoride exposure that is community-wide. The World Health Organization reports that water fluoridation, when feasible and culturally acceptable, has substantial advantages, especially for subgroups at high risk, while the European Commission finds no benefit to water fluoridation compared with topical use.\n\nPublic water fluoridation was first practiced in the U.S. As of 2012, 25 countries have artificial water fluoridation to varying degrees, 11 of them have more than 50% of their population drinking fluoridated water. A further 28 countries have water that is naturally fluoridated, though in many of them the fluoride is above the optimal level. As of 2012, about 435 million people worldwide received water fluoridated at the recommended level (i.e., about 5.4% of the global population).:\u200a56\u200a About 214 million of them live in the United States. Major health organizations such as the World Health Organization and FDI World Dental Federation supported water fluoridation as safe and effective. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention lists water fluoridation as one of the ten great public health achievements of the 20th century in the U.S. Despite this, the practice is controversial as a public health measure. Some countries and communities have discontinued fluoridation, while others have expanded it. Opponents of the practice argue that neither the benefits nor the risks have been studied adequately, and debate the conflict between what might be considered mass medication and individual liberties.\n Question: Tell me about water fluoridation", "output": "Water fluoridation is the controlled adjustment of fluoride to a public water supply solely to reduce tooth decay. Fluoridated water contains fluoride at a level that is effective for preventing cavities; this can occur naturally or by adding fluoride. Fluoridated water operates on tooth surfaces: in the mouth, it creates low levels of fluoride in saliva, which reduces the rate at which tooth enamel demineralizes and increases the rate at which it remineralizes in the early stages of cavities. Typically a fluoridated compound is added to drinking water, a process that in the U.S. costs an average of about $1.17 per person-year. Defluoridation is needed when the naturally occurring fluoride level exceeds recommended limits. In 2011, the World Health Organization suggested a level of fluoride from 0.5 to 1.5 mg/L (milligrams per litre), depending on climate, local environment, and other sources of fluoride. Bottled water typically has unknown fluoride levels.\n\nTooth decay remains a major public health concern in most industrialized countries, affecting 60\u201390% of schoolchildren and the vast majority of adults. Water fluoridation reduces cavities in children, while efficacy in adults is less clear. A Cochrane review estimates a reduction in cavities when water fluoridation was used by children who had no access to other sources of fluoride to be 35% in baby teeth and 26% in permanent teeth. However, this was based on older studies which failed to control for numerous variables, such as increasing sugar consumption as well as other dental strategies. Most European countries have experienced substantial declines in tooth decay, though milk and salt fluoridation is widespread in lieu of water fluoridation. Recent studies suggest that water fluoridation, particularly in industrialized nations, may be unnecessary because topical fluorides (such as in toothpaste) are widely used, and caries rates have become low.\n\nAlthough fluoridation can cause dental fluorosis, which can alter the appearance of developing teeth or enamel fluorosis, the differences are mild and usually not an aesthetic or public health concern. There is no clear evidence of other side effects from water fluoridation. Fluoride's effects depend on the total daily intake of fluoride from all sources. Drinking water is typically the largest source; other methods of fluoride therapy include fluoridation of toothpaste, salt, and milk. The views on the most efficient method for community prevention of tooth decay are mixed. The Australian government states that water fluoridation is the most effective way to achieve fluoride exposure that is community-wide. The World Health Organization reports that water fluoridation, when feasible and culturally acceptable, has substantial advantages, especially for subgroups at high risk, while the European Commission finds no benefit to water fluoridation compared with topical use.\n\nPublic water fluoridation was first practiced in the U.S. As of 2012, 25 countries have artificial water fluoridation to varying degrees, 11 of them have more than 50% of their population drinking fluoridated water. A further 28 countries have water that is naturally fluoridated, though in many of them the fluoride is above the optimal level. As of 2012, about 435 million people worldwide received water fluoridated at the recommended level (i.e., about 5.4% of the global population). 56\u200a About 214 million of them live in the United States. Major health organizations such as the World Health Organization and FDI World Dental Federation supported water fluoridation as safe and effective. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention lists water fluoridation as one of the ten great public health achievements of the 20th century in the U.S. Despite this, the practice is controversial as a public health measure. Some countries and communities have discontinued fluoridation, while others have expanded it. Opponents of the practice argue that neither the benefits nor the risks have been studied adequately, and debate the conflict between what might be considered mass medication and individual liberties."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Rrabosht\u00eb is a village located in the former Kallmet municipality, Lezh\u00eb County, northwestern Albania. At the 2015 local government reform it became part of the municipality Lezh\u00eb. The village is situated near the river Drin, about 4 km north of the city Lezh\u00eb. Nearby mountains include Mali Kastriot and Mali i Vel\u00ebs.\n\nIn Rrabosht\u00eb there is also a church named Te Ngjiturit e Zoj\u00ebs ne Qiell but also a school.\n\nRraboshta is divided into four main mahalla (\"quarter\" or \"neighbourhood\"), that of the Tatej, Pemaj, Ballije, and Mahalla e Poshtme. The majority of brotherhoods descend from Mirdita, the tribal and ethnographic region located to the east of Rrabosht\u00eb, with most having arrived from Orosh and Spa\u00e7. Examples include the Tatej (Spa\u00e7i) and Pemaj (Oroshi). However, there are other minor brotherhoods who trace their ancestry to some of the other regions of northern Albania. The Robi arrived from Dibra in north-eastern Albania while the descendants of Gjon Paloka (the Vok\u00ebrr Pali) came from Kelmend in Mal\u00ebsia.\n\nThe villagers of Rrabosht\u00eb are known for their patriotism and for preserving the traditions and customs of the areas where they came from. The traditional dress is the kalmetore and mirditore dress. The inhabitants of this village are usually engaged in agriculture and livestock. They are famous for the production of grape varieties and the cultivation of this product.\n Question: Given a reference text about Rrabosht\u00eb, tell me what the village is known for and what country it's in.", "output": "Rrabosht\u00eb is located in Albania and is known for producing grape varieties."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The history of the Marine Corps began when two battalions of Continental Marines were formed on 10 November 1775 in Philadelphia as a service branch of infantry troops capable of fighting both at sea and on shore. In the Pacific theater of World War II the Corps took the lead in a massive campaign of amphibious warfare, advancing from island to island. As of 2022, the USMC has around 177,200 active duty members and some 32,400 personnel in reserve.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the United States Marine Corps, tell me when it was created in which city?", "output": "The Marine Corps was established on the 10th of November in 1775 in Philadelphia, PA."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1950s Japan, university professor Tatsuo Kusakabe and his daughters Satsuki and Mei (approximately ten and four years old, respectively) move into an old house close to the hospital where the girls' mother Yasuko is recovering from a long-term illness. The house is inhabited by small, dark, dust-like house spirits called susuwatari, which can be seen when moving from bright places to dark ones.[note 1] When the girls become comfortable in their new house, the susuwatari leave to find another empty house. Mei later discovers two small spirits who lead her into the hollow of a large camphor tree. She befriends a larger spirit, which identifies itself using a series of roars she interprets as \"Totoro\". Mei thinks Totoro is the troll from her illustrated book Three Billy Goats Gruff, with her mispronouncing troll. Mei falls asleep atop Totoro but when Satsuki finds her, she is on the ground. Despite many attempts, Mei cannot show her family Totoro's tree. Tatsuo comforts her by telling her Totoro will reveal himself when he wants to.\n Question: Who are the little Japanese girls who find Totoro?", "output": "Mei and Satsuki are the two Japanese girls who discover Totoro in the famous Japanese anime My Neighbour Totoro."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Anton Pavlovich Chekhov (Russian: \u0410\u043d\u0442\u043e\u043d \u041f\u0430\u0432\u043b\u043e\u0432\u0438\u0447 \u0427\u0435\u0445\u043e\u0432[note 1], IPA: [\u0250n\u02c8ton \u02c8pavl\u0259v\u02b2\u026at\u0255 \u02c8t\u0255ex\u0259f]; 29 January 1860[note 2] \u2013 15 July 1904[note 3]) was a Russian playwright and short-story writer who is considered to be one of the greatest writers of all time. His career as a playwright produced four classics, and his best short stories are held in high esteem by writers and critics. Along with Henrik Ibsen and August Strindberg, Chekhov is often referred to as one of the three seminal figures in the birth of early modernism in the theatre. Chekhov was a physician by profession. \"Medicine is my lawful wife\", he once said, \"and literature is my mistress.\"\n Question: Given this paragraph on Anton Chekhov, please tell me which playwrights he is most often grouped with?", "output": "Chekhov is most often grouped with Henrik Ibsen and August Strindberg as one of the three seminal figures of early modernist theater."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In a 100 gram amount, smooth peanut butter supplies 597 Calories and is composed of 51% fat, 22% protein, 22% carbohydrates (including 5% dietary fiber), and 1% water (table). Both crunchy and smooth peanut butter are sources of saturated and monounsaturated fats (mainly oleic acid) as 25% of total serving amount, and polyunsaturated fat (12% of total), primarily as linoleic acid).\n\nPeanut butter is a rich source (20% or more of the Daily Value, DV) of dietary fiber, vitamin E, pantothenic acid, folate, niacin, and vitamin B6 (table, USDA FoodData Central). Also high in content are the dietary minerals manganese, magnesium, phosphorus, zinc, copper, and sodium (added as salt during manufacturing). Peanut butter is a moderate source (10\u201319% DV) of thiamin, riboflavin, iron, and potassium (table).\n Question: Given this text about the nutrition profile of peanut butter, what vitamins is peanut butter rich in?", "output": "Vitamins that peanut butter is rich in include vitamin E, pantothenic acid, folate, niacin, and vitamin B6."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: U.S. News & World Report ranks UVA tied for 25th among national universities overall, 3rd among public universities and tied for 110th among global universities in its 2022 report, 8th best business program and 3rd best business management program.\n Question: According to this paragraph, what is UVA's overall ranking among national universities?", "output": "UVA tied for 25th among national universities."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Glowworm, was briefly the name of a coastal destroyer launched on 12 December 1906 and renamed HMS TB7. It was sold in May 1921.\nHMS Glowworm (1916), an Insect-class gunboat, launched on 5 February 1916 and sold in 1928.\nHMS Glowworm (H92), a G-class destroyer launched on 22 July 1935, sunk on 8 April 1940 by the German heavy cruiser Admiral Hipper off Norway.\nGlowworm was allocated to a G-class destroyer under construction at the William Denny shipyard at Dumbarton in 1945. The vessel was originally called HMS Guinevere but was renamed in September 1945 to HMS Glowworm, and renamed again in October to HMS Gift. Construction was cancelled on 1 December 1945 before completion.\n Question: When was HMS Glowworm (H92), a G-class destroyer launched?", "output": "The HMS Glowworm (H92), a G-class was launched in July 22nd, 1935."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Primacy of the Spains (Portuguese: Primaz das Espanhas; Spanish: Primado de las Espa\u00f1as, Catalan: Primat de les Espanyes) is the primacy of the Iberian Peninsula, historically known as Hispania or in the plural as the Spains. The Archbishop of Braga, in Portugal, has claimed this primacy over the whole Iberian Peninsula since the middle ages, however today his primacy is only recognized in Portugal. The Archbishop of Toledo in Spain has claimed the Primacy of Spain, as the primate above all other episcopal sees in Spain. In addition, the Archbishop of Tarragona in Catalonia also make use of the title. The Archbishops in Braga, Toledo and Tarragona, if raised to the rank of cardinal, are known as Cardinal-Primates.\n Question: Please explain the Primacy of the Spains", "output": "The Primacy of the Spains (Portuguese: Primaz das Espanhas; Spanish: Primado de las Espa\u00f1as, Catalan: Primat de les Espanyes) is the primacy of the Iberian Peninsula, historically known as Hispania or in the plural as the Spains. \n\nThe Archbishop of Braga, in Portugal, has claimed this primacy over the whole Iberian Peninsula since the middle ages, however today his primacy is only recognized in Portugal. The Archbishop of Toledo in Spain has claimed the Primacy of Spain, as the primate above all other episcopal sees in Spain. \n\nIn addition, the Archbishop of Tarragona in Catalonia also make use of the title. The Archbishops in Braga, Toledo and Tarragona, if raised to the rank of cardinal, are known as Cardinal-Primates."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Cynodon dactylon, commonly known as Bermuda grass, is a grass found worldwide. It is native to Europe, Africa, Australia and much of Asia. It has been introduced to the Americas. Contrary to its common name, it is not native to Bermuda and is in fact an abundant invasive species there. In Bermuda it has been known as \"crab grass\" (also a name for Digitaria sanguinalis). Other names are Dhoob, d\u016brv\u0101 grass, ethana grass, dubo, dog grass, dog's tooth grass, Bahama grass, crab grass, devil's grass, couch grass, Indian doab, arugampul, grama, wiregrass and scutch grass.\n Question: Where did Bermuda grass come from?", "output": "Cynodon dactylon, commonly known as Bermuda grass, is a grass found worldwide. It is native to Europe, Africa, Australia and much of Asia."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the study of complex networks, a network is said to have community structure if the nodes of the network can be easily grouped into (potentially overlapping) sets of nodes such that each set of nodes is densely connected internally. In the particular case of non-overlapping community finding, this implies that the network divides naturally into groups of nodes with dense connections internally and sparser connections between groups. But overlapping communities are also allowed. The more general definition is based on the principle that pairs of nodes are more likely to be connected if they are both members of the same community(ies), and less likely to be connected if they do not share communities. A related but different problem is community search, where the goal is to find a community that a certain vertex belongs to.\n Question: What is a community structure in the study of complex networks?", "output": "In the study of complex networks, a network is said to have community structure if the nodes of the network can be easily grouped into (potentially overlapping) sets of nodes such that each set of nodes is densely connected internally."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Neuromancer is a 1984 science fiction novel by American-Canadian writer William Gibson. Considered one of the earliest and best-known works in the cyberpunk genre, it is the only novel to win the Nebula Award, the Philip K. Dick Award, and the Hugo Award. It was Gibson's debut novel and the beginning of the Sprawl trilogy. Set in the future, the novel follows Henry Case, a washed-up hacker hired for one last job, which brings him in contact with a powerful artificial intelligence.\n Question: Given the reference text about the science fiction novel Neuromancer, tell me the novel's author and the name of the main protagonist.", "output": "Neuromancer was written by William Gibson and its main protagonist is Henry Case."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Multiomics, multi-omics, integrative omics, \"panomics\" or \"pan-omics\" is a biological analysis approach in which the data sets are multiple \"omes\", such as the genome, proteome, transcriptome, epigenome, metabolome, and microbiome (i.e., a meta-genome and/or meta-transcriptome, depending upon how it is sequenced); in other words, the use of multiple omics technologies to study life in a concerted way. By combining these \"omes\", scientists can analyze complex biological big data to find novel associations between biological entities, pinpoint relevant biomarkers and build elaborate markers of disease and physiology. In doing so, multiomics integrates diverse omics data to find a coherently matching geno-pheno-envirotype relationship or association. The OmicTools service lists more than 99 softwares related to multiomic data analysis, as well as more than 99 databases on the topic.\n\nSystems biology approaches are often based upon the use of panomic analysis data. The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) defines panomics as referring to \"the interaction of all biological functions within a cell and with other body functions, combining data collected by targeted tests ... and global assays (such as genome sequencing) with other patient-specific information.\"\n\nSingle-cell multiomics\nA branch of the field of multiomics is the analysis of multilevel single-cell data, called single-cell multiomics. This approach gives us an unprecedent resolution to look at multilevel transitions in health and disease at the single cell level. An advantage in relation to bulk analysis is to mitigate confounding factors derived from cell to cell variation, allowing the uncovering of heterogeneous tissue architectures.\n\nMethods for parallel single-cell genomic and transcriptomic analysis can be based on simultaneous amplification or physical separation of RNA and genomic DNA. They allow insights that cannot be gathered solely from transcriptomic analysis, as RNA data do not contain non-coding genomic regions and information regarding copy-number variation, for example. An extension of this methodology is the integration of single-cell transcriptomes to single-cell methylomes, combining single-cell bisulfite sequencing to single cell RNA-Seq. Other techniques to query the epigenome, as single-cell ATAC-Seq and single-cell Hi-C also exist.\n\nA different, but related, challenge is the integration of proteomic and transcriptomic data. One approach to perform such measurement is to physically separate single-cell lysates in two, processing half for RNA, and half for proteins. The protein content of lysates can be measured by proximity extension assays (PEA), for example, which use DNA-barcoded antibodies. A different approach uses a combination of heavy-metal RNA probes and protein antibodies to adapt mass cytometry for multiomic analysis.\n\nMultiomics and machine learning\nIn parallel to the advances in highthroughput biology, machine learning applications to biomedical data analysis are flourishing. The integration of multi-omics data analysis and machine learning has led to the discovery of new biomarkers. For example, one of the methods of the mixOmics project implements a method based on sparse Partial Least Squares regression for selection of features (putative biomarkers).\n\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiomics\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Asperger Multiomics, what is the goal in combining all the \"omes\"?", "output": "By combining these \"omes\", scientists can analyze complex biological big data to find novel associations between biological entities, pinpoint relevant biomarkers and build elaborate markers of disease and physiology. In doing so, multiomics integrates diverse omics data to find a coherently matching geno-pheno-envirotype relationship or association."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The story begins only days after the conclusion of Taran Wanderer. With winter approaching, Taran and his companion Gurgi return from their wanderings to Caer Dallben after getting news from Kaw the crow that Princess Eilonwy has returned from the Isle of Mona. Indeed, they find her at home, along with her escort King Rhun of Mona and the former giant Glew, who had been magically restored to human size by a potion from Dallben.\n\nBefore Taran can propose to Eilonwy, the bard-king Fflewddur Fflam and his mount Llyan arrive with a gravely injured Gwydion, Prince of Don. Servants of Arawn had assaulted them and seized the magical black sword Dyrnwyn. Fflewddur also states that Taran was involved in the ambush, baffling everyone. With Achren's help, the truth is determined: Arawn himself has come from Annuvin to the verge of Caer Dallben in the guise of Taran, in order to lure Gwydion into the ambush.\n\nBecause Dyrnwyn may be pivotal as a threat to Arawn, Dallben consults the oracular pig Hen Wen to determine how it may be regained. During the reading, the ash rods used to communicate shatter and the two thirds of Hen Wen's answer are discouraging and vague. When Gwydion heals sufficiently, he sets out with Taran and others to meet with King Smoit. Gwydion insists that he alone should enter Annuvin to seek the sword, but Smoit's Cantrev Cadiffor is on the way. The small party divides, as Rhun and Eilonwy intend to visit the ships of Mona en route.\n\nWhen Gwydion, Taran, and others reach Caer Cadarn, they are imprisoned by Magg, the treacherous former Chief Steward of Mona, who has entered service with Arawn and taken over the fortress. When Eilonwy approaches with the other party, she detects something amiss and they cautiously send Fflewddur Fflam to the fortress as a bard. After entertaining the soldiers for a night, he returns with the bad news. Then the companions encounter Gwystyl of the Fair Folk outside the stronghold, en route home after closing the waypost near Annuvin, personally bearing final observations to King Eiddileg about preparations for war by Arawn's forces. With Gwystyl's assistance and store of magical smokes, fires, and concealments, the companions break in and free the prisoners. The plan goes awry, however; King Smoit and his men are finally able to regain control only by Rhun's intervention, which costs his life.\n\nLearning from Gwystyl of the activities in Annuvin, Gwydion turns from the quest for Dyrnwyn to planning for battle at Caer Dathyl. Gwystyl, Fflewddur, and Taran leave to gather support, respectively from the Fair Folk, the northern realms, and the Free Commots. Kaw, sent out by Taran to reconnoiter the enemy, is attacked by Gwythaints while spying near Annuvin, but manages to reach Medwyn, who asks all the creatures of air and land to oppose the forces of Arawn. Taran, Coll, Eilonwy, and Gurgi muster the Commots, who rally to their friendship with Taran, and sends them marching in groups to Caer Dathyl while the smiths and weavers rallied by Hevydd and Dwyvach work day and night to equip them.\n\nSoon after Taran and the last Commots reach Caer Dathyl, King Pryderi arrives from the western realms. In council he announces his new allegiance to Arawn, for the good of all, because \"Arawn will do what the Sons of Don have failed to do: Make an end of endless wars among the cantrevs, and bring peace where there was none before.\" He is rejected utterly but permitted to return unharmed to his army, and at the next day the battle begins. Although the Sons of Don and allies initially have the best of it, the Cauldron-Born arrive en masse before evening, overwhelming the allies and razing Caer Dathyl to the ground.\n\nWith High King Math killed, Gwydion is proclaimed the new High King. With the bulk of the Cauldron-Born deployed outside of Annuvin, Gwydion determines that the best chance is to attack while it is guarded by mortal men alone. He will lead the Sons of Don to waiting ships on the north coast and attack by sea, while Taran leads the Commots to delay the Cauldron-Born's return march, as their power wanes with time and distance from Annuvin.\n\nTaran and his army are able to hold the tired Cauldron-Born warriors beyond arm's length by brute force, and turn the march from a straight and easy route into the rugged hills, although Coll dies in battle. Thanks to a company of Fair Folk, and to the animals sent by Medwyn, they destroy most of the Huntsmen who accompany and lead the undead. At last the Cauldron-Born break free of the hills and return to the lowland route. Regaining strength as they near Annuvin, it would be futile for the exhausted allies to meet them head-on again, so inevitably they take the long, easy route to Arawn's stronghold.\n\nTaran and the remainder of his army finally reach Annuvin by a combination of the direct route, a mountain path of Doli's, and a secret pass over Mount Dragon shown to them by Achren. Taran sees that victory is nearly in Gwydion's hands, but also that the Cauldron-Born are about to reach Annuvin. In his alarm, Taran nearly falls off Mount Dragon, but is saved by the now-grown Gwythaint he had rescued so many years ago (The Book of Three). In a desperate attempt to fight off a group of Cauldron-Born who have discovered him on the mountain, he rolls a rock at them, and discovers Dyrnwyn in the hollow the stone occupied. Wielding Dyrnwyn, Taran slays the undead warrior who approaches to slay him, and at that instant all of the Cauldron-Born die as one.\n\nTaran's group enters the fray, and the battle continues through the halls of Annuvin. Taran is almost deceived by Arawn - who has taken the guise of Gwydion - into giving up the sword. After the chaotic defeat of Arawn's forces, the companions gather before the Great Hall. Achren identifies Arawn in the form of a nearby serpent preparing to strike Taran and grabs him. He strikes her fatally, but Taran kills him with Dyrnwyn. With the death of Arawn, the stronghold of Annuvin bursts in flame and falls in ruins, destroying all of the magical implements inside; only Gurgi manages to save several scrolls containing knowledge of farming, smithing, and other crafts. The sword Dyrnwyn begins to fade, losing its magic.\n\nThe allies travel to Caer Dallben, where Gwydion tells them that in victory the Sons of Don, with all kinsmen and kinswomen, must return to the Summer Country. Indeed, all those who still have magic will depart, and the Fair Folk and Medwyn have closed their realms to outsiders. Dallben and Eilonwy must also go, and others who have served well, Taran among them, are given the chance to accompany them. Taran proposes to Eilonwy at last, and she accepts.\n\nThe Sons of Don plan to leave the next day. However, Taran becomes uncomfortable about his decision overnight. The witches Orddu, Orwen and Orgoch appear before him and reveal that they too are departing, and leave him with an unfinished tapestry depicting his life. He realizes there is much work to be done to rebuild Prydain, and he has made many promises; so he determines to remain behind. Eilonwy is able to willingly give up her magical nature in order to remain with him, and the two are married.\n\nDallben reveals that with this last quest, Taran has completed a path prophesied in the Book of Three whereby an orphan of \"no station in life\" would succeed the Sons of Don as High King. Dallben had traveled to seek such a one and try to hasten the day of Arawn's defeat; on this journey, he found a baby, hidden in the trees beside a battlefield and without any token of parentage, and took it in under the name Taran. Taran receives many gifts, including The Book of Three itself, although its powers, like all magic in Prydain, have also faded away with Arawn's demise, leaving it only as a mere chronicle of Taran's life. With Eilonwy by his side, Taran accepts his new responsibility and is hailed by his friends and battle companions as the new High King.\n Question: In this reference text summarizing plot of the book The High King, how did the sword Dyrnwyn lose its power?", "output": "When Taran killed Arawn with Dyrnwyn in the stronghold of Annuvin, all magical implements inside were destroyed - Dyrnwyn also lost its magic."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Apple was founded as Apple Computer Company on April 1, 1976, by Steve Wozniak, Steve Jobs and Ronald Wayne to develop and sell Wozniak's Apple I personal computer. It was incorporated by Jobs and Wozniak as Apple Computer, Inc. in 1977. The company's second computer, the Apple II, became a best seller and one of the first mass-produced microcomputers. Apple went public in 1980 to instant financial success. The company developed computers featuring innovative graphical user interfaces, including the 1984 original Macintosh, announced that year in a critically acclaimed advertisement. By 1985, the high cost of its products, and power struggles between executives, caused problems. Wozniak stepped back from Apple amicably and pursued other ventures, while Jobs resigned bitterly and founded NeXT, taking some Apple employees with him.\n\nAs the market for personal computers expanded and evolved throughout the 1990s, Apple lost considerable market share to the lower-priced duopoly of the Microsoft Windows operating system on Intel-powered PC clones (also known as \"Wintel\"). In 1997, weeks away from bankruptcy, the company bought NeXT to resolve Apple's unsuccessful operating system strategy and entice Jobs back to the company. Over the next decade, Jobs guided Apple back to profitability through a number of tactics including introducing the iMac, iPod, iPhone and iPad to critical acclaim, launching the \"Think different\" campaign and other memorable advertising campaigns, opening the Apple Store retail chain, and acquiring numerous companies to broaden the company's product portfolio. When Jobs resigned in 2011 for health reasons, and died two months later, he was succeeded as CEO by Tim Cook.\n Question: Given a reference text about Apple, what tactics did Steve Jobs use to help the company recover?", "output": "Steve Jobs launched multiple products such as the iPod and iPhone, opened the Apple Store retail chain, and performed numerous acquisitions to bring Apple back to profitability."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The nation's first codified honor system was instituted by UVA law professor Henry St. George Tucker, Sr. in 1842, after a fellow professor was shot to death on The Lawn. There are three tenets to the system: students simply must not lie, cheat, or steal. For its first 180 years it was a \"single sanction system\", meaning that committing any of these three offenses would result in expulsion from the university. In the spring of 2022, following decades of criticism and waning support for the system, a proposal to replace the penalty of expulsion with a two semester suspension passed a student referendum with over 80% of the vote and took effect immediately.\n Question: According to this paragraph about UVA, what happens to a student who commits an offense from the honor system?", "output": "As of spring 2022, students who commit an offense of the Honor System at UVA face a two semester suspension."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1383, John I of Castile, husband of Beatrice of Portugal and son-in-law of Ferdinand I of Portugal, claimed the throne of Portugal. A faction of petty noblemen and commoners, led by John of Aviz (later King John I of Portugal) and commanded by General Nuno \u00c1lvares Pereira defeated the Castilians in the Battle of Aljubarrota. With this battle, the House of Aviz became the ruling house of Portugal.\n\nThe new ruling dynasty would proceed to push Portugal to the limelight of European politics and culture, creating and sponsoring works of literature, like the Cr\u00f3nicas d'el Rei D. Jo\u00e3o I by Fern\u00e3o Lopes, the first riding and hunting manual Livro da ensinan\u00e7a de bem cavalgar toda sela and O Leal Conselheiro both by King Edward of Portugal and the Portuguese translations of Cicero's De Oficiis and Seneca's De Beneficiis by the well traveled Prince Peter of Coimbra, as well as his magnum opus Tratado da Vertuosa Benfeytoria. In an effort of solidification and centralization of royal power the monarchs of this dynasty also ordered the compilation, organization and publication of the first three compilations of laws in Portugal: the Ordena\u00e7\u00f5es d'el Rei D. Duarte, which was never enforced; the Ordena\u00e7\u00f5es Afonsinas, whose application and enforcement was not uniform across the realm; and the Ordena\u00e7\u00f5es Manuelinas, which took advantage of the printing press to reach every corner of the kingdom. The Avis Dynasty also sponsored works of architecture like the Mosteiro da Batalha (literally, the Monastery of the Battle) and led to the creation of the manueline style of architecture in the 16th century.\n\nPortugal also spearheaded European exploration of the world and the Age of Discovery. Prince Henry the Navigator, son of King John I of Portugal, became the main sponsor and patron of this endeavour. During this period, Portugal explored the Atlantic Ocean, discovering the Atlantic archipelagos the Azores, Madeira, and Cape Verde; explored the African coast; colonized selected areas of Africa; discovered an eastern route to India via the Cape of Good Hope; discovered Brazil, explored the Indian Ocean, established trading routes throughout most of southern Asia; and sent the first direct European maritime trade and diplomatic missions to China and Japan.\n\nIn 1415, Portugal acquired the first of its overseas colonies by conquering Ceuta, the first prosperous Islamic trade centre in North Africa. There followed the first discoveries in the Atlantic: Madeira and the Azores, which led to the first colonization movements.\n\nIn 1422, by decree of King John I, Portugal officially abandoned the previous dating system, the Era of Caesar, and adopted the Anno Domini system, therefore becoming the last catholic realm to do so.\n\n\nThroughout the 15th century, Portuguese explorers sailed the coast of Africa, establishing trading posts for several common types of tradable commodities at the time, ranging from gold to slaves, as they looked for a route to India and its spices, which were coveted in Europe.\n\nThe Treaty of Tordesillas, intended to resolve the dispute that had been created following the return of Christopher Columbus, was made by Pope Alexander VI, the mediator between Portugal and Spain. It was signed on 7 June 1494, and divided the newly discovered lands outside Europe between the two countries along a meridian 370 leagues west of the Cape Verde islands (off the west coast of Africa).\n\n\nIn 1498, Vasco da Gama accomplished what Columbus set out to do and became the first European to reach India by sea, bringing economic prosperity to Portugal and its population of 1.7 million residents, and helping to start the Portuguese Renaissance. In 1500, the Portuguese explorer Gaspar Corte-Real reached what is now Canada and founded the town of Portugal Cove-St. Philip's, Newfoundland and Labrador, long before the French and English in the 17th century, and being just one of many Portuguese colonizations of the Americas.\n\nIn 1500, Pedro \u00c1lvares Cabral discovered Brazil and claimed it for Portugal. Ten years later, Afonso de Albuquerque conquered Goa in India, Muscat and Ormuz in the Persian Strait, and Malacca, now a state in Malaysia. Thus, the Portuguese empire held dominion over commerce in the Indian Ocean and South Atlantic. Portuguese sailors set out to reach Eastern Asia by sailing eastward from Europe, landing in such places as Taiwan, Japan, the island of Timor, and in the Moluccas.\n\nAlthough for a long period it was believed the Dutch were the first Europeans to arrive in Australia, there is also some evidence that the Portuguese may have discovered Australia in 1521. From 1519 to 1522, Ferdinand Magellan (Fern\u00e3o de Magalh\u00e3es) organized a Spanish expedition to the East Indies which resulted in the first circumnavigation of the globe. Magellan never made it back to Europe as he was killed by natives in the Philippines in 1521.\n\nThe Treaty of Zaragoza, signed on 22 April 1529 between Portugal and Spain, specified the anti-meridian to the line of demarcation specified in the Treaty of Tordesillas.\n\nAll these factors made Portugal one of the world's major economic, military, and political powers from the 15th century until the late 16th century.\n Question: What was the The Treaty of Tordesillas?", "output": "After Christopher Columbus returned, a dispute arose between Portugal and Spain, which Pope Alexander VI mediated for the Treaty of Tordesillas.\nAccording to this joint treaty, the newly discovered lands beyond Europe are divided between the two countries along a meridian located 370 leagues west of the Cape Verde islands."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: An archipelago (/\u02cc\u0251\u02d0rk\u0259\u02c8p\u025bl\u0259\u02cc\u0261o\u028a/ (listen) AR-k\u0259-PEL-\u0259-goh), sometimes called an island group or island chain, is a chain, cluster, or collection of islands, or sometimes a sea containing a small number of scattered islands.\n\nExamples of archipelagos include: the Indonesian Archipelago, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the Lakshadweep Islands, the Gal\u00e1pagos Islands, the Japanese archipelago, the Philippine Archipelago, the Maldives, the Balearic Islands, The Bahamas, the Aegean Islands, the Hawaiian Islands, the Canary Islands, Malta, the Azores, the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, the British Isles, the islands of the Archipelago Sea, and Shetland. They are sometimes defined by political boundaries. For example, the Gulf archipelago off the northeastern Pacific coast forms part of a larger archipelago that geographically includes Washington state's San Juan Islands; while the Gulf archipelago and San Juan Islands are geographically related, they are not technically included in the same archipelago due to manmade geopolitical borders.\n Question: What is an archipelago", "output": "An archipelago is a grouping, or clustering, of islands."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Valery Moiseevich Leibin (born 8 March 1942 in the village of Khmelyovka in Zuevskiy district of Kirov region in Russia) is a Russian psychoanalyst, Ph.D., head of the department of history and theory of psychoanalysis in Institute of Psychoanalysis, Professor of Moscow State Medical Stomatological University, an honorary Doctor of East European Institute of Psychoanalysis, an honorary member of the interregional public organization Russian Psychoanalytical Society, a member of the Academy of Pedagogical and Social Sciences, a chief scientist of Institute for Systems Analysis of Russian Academy of Sciences, a member of the editorial boards of the \"Russian Psychoanalytic Bulletin\" (since 1991), the philosophic psychoanalytic journal \"Archetype\" (since 1996), \"Psychoanalytic Review\" (since 1997) and \"Review of Psychoanalysis\" (since 2005). According to the rating given by \"Psychological newspaper\" Valery Leibin is in the top ten most prominent psychoanalysts in Russia.\n Question: Given a reference text about Valery Moiseevich Leibin, tell me where he is a member of an editorial board and when he died.", "output": "Valery Moiseevich Leibin is still alive. He is a member of the following editorial boards:\n- \"Russian Psychoanalytic Bulletin\"\n- \"Archetype\"\n- \"Psychoanalytic Review\"\n- \"Review of Psychoanalysis\""}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, also called the COVID-19 Stimulus Package or American Rescue Plan, is a US$1.9 trillion economic stimulus bill passed by the 117th United States Congress and signed into law by President Joe Biden on March 11, 2021, to speed up the country's recovery from the economic and health effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the ongoing recession. First proposed on January 14, 2021, the package builds upon many of the measures in the CARES Act from March 2020 and in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, from December.\n\nBeginning on February 2, 2021, Democrats in the United States Senate started to open debates on a budget resolution that would allow them to pass the stimulus package through the process of reconciliation which would not require support from Republicans. The House of Representatives voted 218\u2013212 to approve its version of the budget resolution. A so-called vote-a-rama session started two days later after the resolution was approved, and the Senate introduced amendments in the relief package. The day after, Vice President Kamala Harris cast her first tie-breaking vote as vice president in order to give the Senate's approval to start the reconciliation process, with the House following suit by voting 219\u2013209 to agree to the Senate version of the resolution.\n\nOn February 8, 2021, the Financial Services and Education and Labor committees released a draft of $1.9 trillion stimulus legislation. A portion of the relief package was approved by the House Ways and Means on February 11, setting it up for a vote in the House. The legislation was also approved by the Transportation and Infrastructure, Small Business, and House Veterans Affairs committees. On February 22, the House Budget Committee voted 19\u201316 to advance the bill to the House for a floor vote. The bill passed the House by a vote of 219\u2013212 on February 27. All but two Democrats voted for the bill and all Republicans voted against the bill. A modified version passed the Senate on March 6 by a vote of 50\u201349. The final amended bill was passed by the House on March 10 by a vote of 220\u2013211 with one Democrat voting against it with all Republicans. The bill was signed into law by President Biden on March 11, 2021, which was the first anniversary of COVID-19 being declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization.\n Question: Given the reference text about the American Rescue Plan Act, tell me how much money was authorized to be spent.", "output": "The American Rescue Plan authorized $1.9T of economic stimulus to be spent."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Elemental magnesium is a gray-white lightweight metal, two-thirds the density of aluminium. Magnesium has the lowest melting (923 K (650 \u00b0C)) and the lowest boiling point 1,363 K (1,090 \u00b0C) of all the alkaline earth metals.\n Question: Given this paragraph about magnesium, what is the boiling point of magnesium in celsius?", "output": "The boiling point of magnesium is 1,090 \u00b0C."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Belgrandia varica is a species of minute freshwater snail with an operculum, an aquatic gastropod mollusc or micromollusc in the family Hydrobiidae.\n Question: Does Belgrandia varica live in the ocean?", "output": "No, Belgrandia varica lives in freshwater."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Citro\u00ebn C4 Cactus is a subcompact crossover SUV, produced by French automaker Citro\u00ebn in Spain between April 2014 and December 2017, with production of the second generation commencing in October 2017 (until May 2020 in Villaverde), with the final months of production being disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The C4 Cactus is considered a compact SUV, although it is based on the PSA PF1 platform that underpins the smaller Citro\u00ebn C3 and DS3.\n\nA distinctive design feature is the \"AirBump\" panels on the car's sides, designed to protect the vehicle from damage in car parks. The Citro\u00ebn Cactus Concept, presented at the 2013 Frankfurt Motor Show, previewed the production version. The C4 Cactus was presented at the 2014 Geneva Motor Show.\n Question: What type of model is the Citroen C4 Cactus?", "output": "The Citroen C4 Cactus is a subcompact crossover SUV produced by Citroen, a French automaker."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Edson Arantes do Nascimento (Brazilian Portuguese: [\u02c8\u025bds\u00f5 a\u02c8\u027e\u0250\u0303t\u0283iz du nasi\u02c8m\u1ebdtu]; 23 October 1940 \u2013 29 December 2022), better known by his nickname Pel\u00e9 (Portuguese pronunciation: [pe\u02c8l\u025b]), was a Brazilian professional footballer who played as a forward. Widely regarded as one of the greatest players of all time, he was among the most successful and popular sports figures of the 20th century. In 1999, he was named Athlete of the Century by the International Olympic Committee and was included in the Time list of the 100 most important people of the 20th century. In 2000, Pel\u00e9 was voted World Player of the Century by the International Federation of Football History & Statistics (IFFHS) and was one of the two joint winners of the FIFA Player of the Century. His 1,279 goals in 1,363 games, which includes friendlies, is recognised as a Guinness World Record.\n\nPel\u00e9 began playing for Santos at age 15 and the Brazil national team at 16. During his international career, he won three FIFA World Cups: 1958, 1962 and 1970, the only player to do so and the youngest player to win a World Cup (17). He was nicknamed O Rei (The King) following the 1958 tournament. Pel\u00e9 is the joint-top goalscorer for Brazil with 77 goals in 92 games. At the club level, he was Santos's all-time top goalscorer with 643 goals in 659 games. In a golden era for Santos, he led the club to the 1962 and 1963 Copa Libertadores, and to the 1962 and 1963 Intercontinental Cup. Credited with connecting the phrase \"The Beautiful Game\" with football, Pel\u00e9's \"electrifying play and penchant for spectacular goals\" made him a star around the world, and his teams toured internationally to take full advantage of his popularity. During his playing days, Pel\u00e9 was for a period the best-paid athlete in the world. After retiring in 1977, Pel\u00e9 was a worldwide ambassador for football and made many acting and commercial ventures. In 2010, he was named the honorary president of the New York Cosmos.\n\nAveraging almost a goal per game throughout his career, Pel\u00e9 was adept at striking the ball with either foot in addition to anticipating his opponents' movements on the field. While predominantly a striker, he could also drop deep and take on a playmaking role, providing assists with his vision and passing ability, and he would also use his dribbling skills to go past opponents. In Brazil, he was hailed as a national hero for his accomplishments in football and for his outspoken support of policies that improve the social conditions of the poor. His emergence at the 1958 World Cup, where he became a black global sporting star, was a source of inspiration. Throughout his career and in his retirement, Pel\u00e9 received numerous individual and team awards for his performance on the field, his record-breaking achievements, and his legacy in the sport.\n\nEarly years\n\nBorn in Tr\u00eas Cora\u00e7\u00f5es in Minas Gerais state in Brazil in 1940, Pel\u00e9 has a street named after him in the city \u2013 Rua Edson Arantes do Nascimento. A statue of Pel\u00e9 is also prominently placed in a plaza near the city's downtown.\nPel\u00e9 was born Edson Arantes do Nascimento on 23 October 1940 in Tr\u00eas Cora\u00e7\u00f5es, Minas Gerais, the son of Fluminense footballer Dondinho (born Jo\u00e3o Ramos do Nascimento) and Celeste Arantes. He was the elder of two siblings, with brother Zoca also playing for Santos, albeit not as successfully. He was named after the American inventor Thomas Edison. His parents decided to remove the \"i\" and call him \"Edson\", but there was a typo on his birth certificate, leading many documents to show his name as \"Edison\", not \"Edson\", as he was called. He was originally nicknamed \"Dico\" by his family. He received the nickname \"Pel\u00e9\" during his school days, when, it is claimed, he was given it because of his pronunciation of the name of his favourite player, local Vasco da Gama goalkeeper Bil\u00e9, which he misspoke, but the more he complained the more it stuck. In his autobiography released in 2006, Pel\u00e9 stated he had no idea what the name means, nor did his old friends. Apart from the assertion that the name is derived from that of \"Bil\u00e9\", the word has no meaning in Portuguese.[note 2]\n\nPel\u00e9 grew up in poverty in Bauru in the state of S\u00e3o Paulo. He earned extra money by working in tea shops as a servant. Taught to play by his father, he could not afford a proper football and usually played with either a sock stuffed with newspaper and tied with string or a grapefruit. He played for several amateur teams in his youth, including Sete de Setembro, Canto do Rio, S\u00e3o Paulinho, and Ameriquinha. Pel\u00e9 led Bauru Atl\u00e9tico Clube juniors (coached by Waldemar de Brito) to two S\u00e3o Paulo state youth championships. In his mid-teens, he played for an indoor football team called Radium. Indoor football had just become popular in Bauru when Pel\u00e9 began playing it. He was part of the first futsal (indoor football) competition in the region. Pel\u00e9 and his team won the first championship and several others.\n\nAccording to Pel\u00e9, futsal (indoor football) presented difficult challenges: he said it was a lot quicker than football on the grass, and that players were required to think faster because everyone is close to each other in the pitch. Pel\u00e9 credits futsal for helping him think better on the spot. In addition, futsal allowed him to play with adults when he was about 14 years old. In one of the tournaments he participated in, he was initially considered too young to play, but eventually went on to end up top scorer with 14 or 15 goals. \"That gave me a lot of confidence\", Pel\u00e9 said, \"I knew then not to be afraid of whatever might come\".\n\nClub career\nSantos\nMain article: Os Sant\u00e1sticos\n1956\u20131962: Early years with Santos and declared a national treasure\n\nPel\u00e9 in 1962, by then rated the best player in the world\nIn 1956, de Brito took Pel\u00e9 to Santos, an industrial and port city located near S\u00e3o Paulo, to try out for professional club Santos FC, telling the club's directors that the 15-year-old would be \"the greatest football player in the world.\" Pel\u00e9 impressed Santos coach Lula during his trial at the Est\u00e1dio Vila Belmiro, and he signed a professional contract with the club in June 1956. Pel\u00e9 was highly promoted in the local media as a future superstar. He made his senior team debut on 7 September 1956 at the age of 15 against Corinthians de Santo Andr\u00e9 and had an impressive performance in a 7\u20131 victory, scoring the first goal in his prolific career during the match.\n\nWhen the 1957 season started, Pel\u00e9 was given a starting place in the first team and, at the age of 16, became the top scorer in the league. Ten months after signing professionally, the teenager was called up to the Brazil national team. After the 1958 and the 1962 World Cup, wealthy European clubs, such as Real Madrid, Juventus and Manchester United, tried to sign him in vain. In 1958, Inter Milan even managed to get him a regular contract, but Angelo Moratti was forced to tear the contract up at the request of Santos's chairman following a revolt by Santos's Brazilian fans. Valencia CF also arranged an agreement that would have brought Pel\u00e9 to the club after the 1958 World Cup, however after his performances at the tournament Santos declined to let the player leave. In 1961 the government of Brazil under President J\u00e2nio Quadros declared Pel\u00e9 an \"official national treasure\" to prevent him from being transferred out of the country.\n\nPel\u00e9 won his first major title with Santos in 1958 as the team won the Campeonato Paulista; he would finish the tournament as the top scorer, with 58 goals, a record that still stands today. A year later, he would help the team earn their first victory in the Torneio Rio-S\u00e3o Paulo with a 3\u20130 over Vasco da Gama. However, Santos was unable to retain the Paulista title. In 1960, Pel\u00e9 scored 33 goals to help his team regain the Campeonato Paulista trophy but lost out on the Rio-S\u00e3o Paulo tournament after finishing in 8th place. In the 1960 season, Pel\u00e9 scored 47 goals and helped Santos regain the Campeonato Paulista. The club went on to win the Ta\u00e7a Brasil that same year, beating Bahia in the finals; Pel\u00e9 finished as the top scorer of the tournament with nine goals. The victory allowed Santos to participate in the Copa Libertadores, the most prestigious club tournament in the Western hemisphere.\n\n1962\u20131965: Copa Libertadores success\n\"I arrived hoping to stop a great man, but I went away convinced I had been undone by someone who was not born on the same planet as the rest of us.\"\n\n\u2014Benfica goalkeeper Costa Pereira following the loss to Santos in 1962.\nSantos's most successful Copa Libertadores season started in 1962; the team was seeded in Group One alongside Cerro Porte\u00f1o and Deportivo Municipal Bolivia, winning every match of their group but one (a 1\u20131 away tie versus Cerro). Santos defeated Universidad Cat\u00f3lica in the semi-finals and met defending champions Pe\u00f1arol in the finals. Pel\u00e9 scored twice in the playoff match to secure the first title for a Brazilian club. Pel\u00e9 finished as the second top scorer of the competition with four goals. That same year, Santos would successfully defend the Campeonato Paulista (with 37 goals from Pel\u00e9) and the Ta\u00e7a Brasil (Pel\u00e9 scoring four goals in the final series against Botafogo). Santos would also win the 1962 Intercontinental Cup against Benfica. Wearing his number 10 shirt, Pel\u00e9 produced one of the best performances of his career, scoring a hat-trick in Lisbon as Santos won 5\u20132.\n\n\nPel\u00e9 with Santos in the Netherlands, October 1962\nPel\u00e9 states that his most memorable goal was scored at the Est\u00e1dio Rua Javari on a Campeonato Paulista match against S\u00e3o Paulo rival Clube Atl\u00e9tico Juventus on 2 August 1959. As there is no video footage of this match, Pel\u00e9 asked that a computer animation be made of this specific goal. In March 1961, Pel\u00e9 scored the gol de placa (goal worthy of a plaque), against Fluminense at the Maracan\u00e3. Pel\u00e9 received the ball on the edge of his own penalty area, and ran the length of the field, eluding opposition players with feints, before striking the ball beyond the goalkeeper. A plaque was commissioned with a dedication to \"the most beautiful goal in the history of the Maracan\u00e3\".\n\n\nPel\u00e9 before facing Boca Juniors in the second leg of the 1963 Copa Libertadores Finals at La Bombonera.\nAs the defending champions, Santos qualified automatically to the semi-final stage of the 1963 Copa Libertadores. The bal\u00e9 branco (white ballet), the nickname given to Santos at the time, managed to retain the title after victories over Botafogo and Boca Juniors. Pel\u00e9 helped Santos overcome a Botafogo team that featured Brazilian greats such as Garrincha and Jairzinho with a last-minute goal in the first leg of the semi-finals which made it 1\u20131. In the second leg, Pel\u00e9 scored a hat-trick in the Est\u00e1dio do Maracan\u00e3 as Santos won, 0\u20134, in the second leg. Santos started the final series by winning, 3\u20132, in the first leg and defeating Boca Juniors 1\u20132, in La Bombonera. It was a rare feat in official competitions, with another goal from Pel\u00e9. Santos became the first Brazilian team to lift the Copa Libertadores in Argentine soil. Pel\u00e9 finished the tournament with five goals. Santos lost the Campeonato Paulista after finishing in third place but went on to win the Rio-S\u00e3o Paulo tournament after a 0\u20133 win over Flamengo in the final, with Pel\u00e9 scoring one goal. Pel\u00e9 would also help Santos retain the Intercontinental Cup and the Ta\u00e7a Brasil against AC Milan and Bahia respectively.\n\nIn the 1964 Copa Libertadores, Santos was beaten in both legs of the semi-finals by Independiente. The club won the Campeonato Paulista, with Pel\u00e9 netting 34 goals. Santos also shared the Rio-S\u00e3o Paulo title with Botafogo and won the Ta\u00e7a Brasil for the fourth consecutive year. In the 1965 Copa Libertadores, Santos reached the semi-finals and met Pe\u00f1arol in a rematch of the 1962 final. After two matches, a playoff was needed to break the tie. Unlike 1962, Pe\u00f1arol came out on top and eliminated Santos 2\u20131. Pel\u00e9 would, however, finish as the top scorer of the tournament with eight goals.\n\n1966\u20131974: O Mil\u00e9simo and final years with Santos\nIn 1966, Santos failed to retain the Ta\u00e7a Brasil as Pel\u00e9's goals were not enough to prevent a 9\u20134 defeat by Cruzeiro (led by Tost\u00e3o) in the final series. The club did, however, win the Campeonato Paulista in 1967, 1968, and 1969. On 19 November 1969, Pel\u00e9 scored his 1,000th goal in all competitions, in what was a highly anticipated moment in Brazil. The goal dubbed O Mil\u00e9simo (The Thousandth), occurred in a match against Vasco da Gama, when Pel\u00e9 scored from a penalty kick, at the Maracan\u00e3 Stadium.\n\nIn 1969, the two factions involved in the Nigerian Civil War agreed to a 48-hour ceasefire so they could watch Pel\u00e9 play an exhibition game in Lagos. Santos ended up playing to a 2\u20132 draw with Lagos side Stationary Stores FC and Pel\u00e9 scored his team's goals. The civil war went on for one more year after this game. During his time at Santos, Pel\u00e9 played alongside many gifted players, including Zito, Pepe, and Coutinho; the latter partnered him in numerous one-two plays, attacks, and goals. After Pel\u00e9's 19th season with Santos, he left Brazilian football. Pel\u00e9's 643 goals for Santos were the most goals scored for a single club until it was surpassed by Lionel Messi of Barcelona in December 2020.\n\nNew York Cosmos\n\nPel\u00e9 signing a football for US president Richard Nixon at the White House in 1973, two years before joining the New York Cosmos\nAfter the 1974 season (his 19th with Santos), Pel\u00e9 retired from Brazilian club football although he continued to occasionally play for Santos in official competitive matches. A year later, he came out of semi-retirement to sign with the New York Cosmos of the North American Soccer League (NASL) for the 1975 season. At a chaotic press conference at New York's 21 Club, the Cosmos unveiled Pel\u00e9. John O'Reilly, the club's media spokesman, stated, \"We had superstars in the United States but nothing at the level of Pel\u00e9. Everyone wanted to touch him, shake his hand, get a photo with him.\" Though well past his prime at this point, Pel\u00e9 was credited with significantly increasing public awareness and interest of the sport in the US. During his first public appearance in Boston, he was injured by a crowd of fans who had surrounded him and was evacuated on a stretcher.\n\n\nPel\u00e9 entering the field to play his first game with the Cosmos, 15 June 1975\nPel\u00e9 made his debut for the Cosmos on 15 June 1975 against the Dallas Tornado at Downing Stadium, scoring one goal in a 2\u20132 draw. Pel\u00e9 opened the door for many other stars to play in North America. Giorgio Chinaglia followed him to the Cosmos, then Franz Beckenbauer and his former Santos teammate Carlos Alberto. Over the next few years other players came to the league, including Johan Cruyff, Eus\u00e9bio, Bobby Moore, George Best and Gordon Banks.\n\nIn 1975, one week before the Lebanese Civil War, Pel\u00e9 played a friendly game for the Lebanese club Nejmeh against a team of Lebanese Premier League stars, scoring two goals which were not included in his official tally. On the day of the game, 40,000 spectators were at the stadium from early morning to watch the match.\n\nPel\u00e9 led the Cosmos to the 1977 Soccer Bowl, in his third and final season with the club. In June 1977, the Cosmos attracted an NASL record 62,394 fans to Giants Stadium for a 3\u20130 victory past the Tampa Bay Rowdies with a 37-year-old Pel\u00e9 scoring a hat-trick. In the first leg of the quarter-finals, they attracted a US record crowd of 77,891 for what turned into an 8\u20133 rout of the Fort Lauderdale Strikers at Giants Stadium. In the second leg of the semi-finals against the Rochester Lancers, the Cosmos won 4\u20131. Pel\u00e9 finished his official playing career on 28 August 1977, by leading the New York Cosmos to their second Soccer Bowl title with a 2\u20131 win over the Seattle Sounders at the Civic Stadium in Portland, Oregon.\n\nOn 1 October 1977, Pel\u00e9 closed out his career in an exhibition match between the Cosmos and Santos. The match was played in front of a sold-out crowd at Giants Stadium and was televised in the US on ABC's Wide World of Sports as well as throughout the world. Pel\u00e9's father and wife both attended the match, as well as Muhammad Ali and Bobby Moore. Delivering a message to the audience before the start of the game\u2014\"Love is more important than what we can take in life\"\u2014Pel\u00e9 played the first half with the Cosmos, the second with Santos. The game ended with the Cosmos winning 2\u20131, with Pel\u00e9 scoring with a 30-yard free-kick for the Cosmos in what was the final goal of his career. During the second half, it started to rain, prompting a Brazilian newspaper to come out with the headline the following day: \"Even The Sky Was Crying.\"\n Question: What was the name of the last team Pele played professionally?", "output": "Pele's last football club was New York Cosmos of the North American Soccer League, for which he played during 3 seasons, ending his professional career in 1977."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: UBS Group AG[nb 1] is a multinational investment bank and financial services company founded and based in Switzerland. Co-headquartered in the cities of Z\u00fcrich and Basel, it maintains a presence in all major financial centres as the largest Swiss banking institution and the largest private bank in the world. UBS client services are known for their strict bank\u2013client confidentiality and culture of banking secrecy.[nb 2] Because of the bank's large positions in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific markets, the Financial Stability Board considers it a global systemically important bank.\n\nApart from private banking, UBS provides wealth management, asset management, and investment banking services for private, corporate, and institutional clients with international service. UBS manages the largest amount of private wealth in the world, counting approximately half of the world's billionaires among its clients. Despite its trimming of sell-side operations, UBS maintains a global investment bank and is considered a primary market maker. The bank also maintains numerous underground bank vaults, bunkers, and storage facilities for gold bars around the Swiss Alps and internationally. Partly due to its banking secrecy, it has been at the centre of numerous tax avoidance investigations undertaken by U.S., French, German, Israeli, and Belgian authorities. UBS operations in Switzerland and the United States were respectively ranked first and second on the 2018 Financial Secrecy Index.\n\nAs of May 2022, UBS is the third largest bank in Europe with a market capitalization of $63 billion. It is one of the eight global \"Bulge Bracket\" banks. It has over CHF 3.2 trillion in assets under management (AUM), approximately CHF 2.8 trillion of which are invested assets. In June 2017, its return on invested capital was 11.1%, followed by Goldman Sachs' 9.35%, and JPMorgan Chase's 9.456%. In late 2016, UBS established a blockchain technology research lab in London to advance its cyber security and encryption of client activities. Based on regional deal flow and political influence, UBS is considered one of the \"biggest, most powerful financial institutions in the world\". The company's capital strength, security protocols, and reputation for discretion have yielded a substantial market share in banking and a high level of brand loyalty. Alternatively, it receives routine criticism for facilitating tax noncompliance and off-shore financing. UBS is a primary dealer and Forex counterparty of the U.S. Federal Reserve.\n Question: Is UBS a good bank", "output": "UBS Group AG is a multinational investment bank and financial services company founded and based in Switzerland. Co-headquartered in the cities of Z\u00fcrich and Basel, it maintains a presence in all major financial centres as the largest Swiss banking institution and the largest private bank in the world. UBS client services are known for their strict bank\u2013client confidentiality and culture of banking secrecy. Because of the bank's large positions in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific markets, the Financial Stability Board considers it a global systemically important bank.\n\nApart from private banking, UBS provides wealth management, asset management, and investment banking services for private, corporate, and institutional clients with international service. UBS manages the largest amount of private wealth in the world, counting approximately half of the world's billionaires among its clients. Despite its trimming of sell-side operations, UBS maintains a global investment bank and is considered a primary market maker. The bank also maintains numerous underground bank vaults, bunkers, and storage facilities for gold bars around the Swiss Alps and internationally. Partly due to its banking secrecy, it has been at the centre of numerous tax avoidance investigations undertaken by U.S., French, German, Israeli, and Belgian authorities. UBS operations in Switzerland and the United States were respectively ranked first and second on the 2018 Financial Secrecy Index.\n\nAs of May 2022, UBS is the third largest bank in Europe with a market capitalization of $63 billion. It is one of the eight global \"Bulge Bracket\" banks. It has over CHF 3.2 trillion in assets under management (AUM), approximately CHF 2.8 trillion of which are invested assets. In June 2017, its return on invested capital was 11.1%, followed by Goldman Sachs' 9.35%, and JPMorgan Chase's 9.456%. In late 2016, UBS established a blockchain technology research lab in London to advance its cyber security and encryption of client activities. Based on regional deal flow and political influence, UBS is considered one of the \"biggest, most powerful financial institutions in the world\". The company's capital strength, security protocols, and reputation for discretion have yielded a substantial market share in banking and a high level of brand loyalty. Alternatively, it receives routine criticism for facilitating tax noncompliance and off-shore financing. UBS is a primary dealer and Forex counterparty of the U.S. Federal Reserve."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Franz Kafka (3 July 1883 \u2013 3 June 1924) was a German-speaking Bohemian novelist and short-story writer based in Prague, who is widely regarded as one of the major figures of 20th-century literature. His work fuses elements of realism and the fantastic. It typically features isolated protagonists facing bizarre or surrealistic predicaments and incomprehensible socio-bureaucratic powers. It has been interpreted as exploring themes of alienation, existential anxiety, guilt, and absurdity. His best known works include the short story \"The Metamorphosis\" and novels The Trial and The Castle. The term Kafkaesque has entered English to describe absurd situations, like those depicted in his writing.\n\nKafka was born into a middle-class German-speaking Czech Jewish family in Prague, the capital of the Kingdom of Bohemia, then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire (today the capital of the Czech Republic). He trained as a lawyer, and after completing his legal education was employed full-time by an insurance company, forcing him to relegate writing to his spare time. Over the course of his life, Kafka wrote hundreds of letters to family and close friends, including his father, with whom he had a strained and formal relationship. He became engaged to several women but never married. He died in obscurity in 1924 at the age of 40 from tuberculosis.\n\nKafka was a prolific writer, spending most of his free time writing, often late in the night. He burned an estimated 90 per cent of his total work due to his persistent struggles with self-doubt. Much of the remaining 10 per cent is lost or otherwise unpublished. Few of Kafka's works were published during his lifetime: the story collections Contemplation and A Country Doctor, and individual stories (such as \"The Metamorphosis\") were published in literary magazines but received little public attention.\n\nIn his will, Kafka instructed his close friend and literary executor Max Brod to destroy his unfinished works, including his novels The Trial, The Castle, and Amerika, but Brod ignored these instructions, and had much of his work published. Kafka's work became famous in German-speaking countries after World War II, influencing their literature, and it spread elsewhere in the world in the 1960s. It has since influenced a range of writers, critics, artists, and philosophers.\n Question: Why are there so few works of Kafka left even though he was a prolific writer?", "output": "Though Kafka was a prolific writer he struggled with low self-esteem and destroyed 90% of his work. Rest of his works were lost or were not published. In his will Kafka instructed that his unfinished novels be destroyed, luckily those instructions were ignored and we are able to read his novels like The Trial and The Castle."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Rosa Louise McCauley Parks (February 4, 1913 \u2013 October 24, 2005) was an American activist in the civil rights movement best known for her pivotal role in the Montgomery bus boycott. The United States Congress has honored her as \"the first lady of civil rights\" and \"the mother of the freedom movement\". Parks became a NAACP activist in 1943, participating in several high profile civil rights campaigns. On December 1, 1955, in Montgomery, Alabama, Parks rejected bus driver James F. Blake's order to vacate a row of four seats in the \"colored\" section in favor of a White passenger, once the \"White\" section was filled. Parks was not the first person to resist bus segregation, but the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) believed that she was the best candidate for seeing through a court challenge after her arrest for civil disobedience in violating Alabama segregation laws, and she helped inspire the Black community to boycott the Montgomery buses for over a year. The case became bogged down in the state courts, but the federal Montgomery bus lawsuit Browder v. Gayle resulted in a November 1956 decision that bus segregation is unconstitutional under the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.\n\nParks's act of defiance and the Montgomery bus boycott became important symbols of the movement. She became an international icon of resistance to racial segregation, and organized and collaborated with civil rights leaders, including Edgar Nixon and Martin Luther King Jr. At the time, Parks was employed as a seamstress at a local department store and was secretary of the Montgomery chapter of the NAACP. She had recently attended the Highlander Folk School, a Tennessee center for training activists for workers' rights and racial equality. Although widely honored in later years, she also suffered for her act; she was fired from her job, and received death threats for years afterwards. Shortly after the boycott, she moved to Detroit, where she briefly found similar work. From 1965 to 1988, she served as secretary and receptionist to John Conyers, an African-American US Representative. She was also active in the Black Power movement and the support of political prisoners in the US.\n\nAfter retirement, Parks wrote her autobiography and continued to insist that there was more work to be done in the struggle for justice. Parks received national recognition, including the NAACP's 1979 Spingarn Medal, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the Congressional Gold Medal, and a posthumous statue in the United States Capitol's National Statuary Hall. Upon her death in 2005, she was the first woman to lie in honor in the Capitol Rotunda. California and Missouri commemorate Rosa Parks Day on her birthday, February 4, while Ohio, Oregon, and Texas commemorate the anniversary of her arrest, December 1.\n Question: Who was Rosa Parks?", "output": "Rosa Louise McCauley Parks, born on February 4, 1913 was an American activist in the civil rights movement best known for her pivotal role in the Montgomery bus boycott. The United States Congress has honored her as \"the first lady of civil rights\" and \"the mother of the freedom movement\". Parks became a NAACP activist in 1943, participating in several high profile civil rights campaigns. On December 1, 1955, in Montgomery, Alabama, Parks rejected bus driver James F. Blake's order to vacate a row of four seats in the \"colored\" section in favor of a White passenger, once the \"White\" section was filled. Parks was not the first person to resist bus segregation, but the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) believed that she was the best candidate for seeing through a court challenge after her arrest for civil disobedience in violating Alabama segregation laws, and she helped inspire the Black community to boycott the Montgomery buses for over a year. The case became bogged down in the state courts, but the federal Montgomery bus lawsuit Browder v. Gayle resulted in a November 1956 decision that bus segregation is unconstitutional under the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.\n\nParks's act of defiance and the Montgomery bus boycott became important symbols of the movement. She became an international icon of resistance to racial segregation, and organized and collaborated with civil rights leaders, including Edgar Nixon and Martin Luther King Jr. At the time, Parks was employed as a seamstress at a local department store and was secretary of the Montgomery chapter of the NAACP. She had recently attended the Highlander Folk School, a Tennessee center for training activists for workers' rights and racial equality. Although widely honored in later years, she also suffered for her act; she was fired from her job, and received death threats for years afterwards. Shortly after the boycott, she moved to Detroit, where she briefly found similar work. From 1965 to 1988, she served as secretary and receptionist to John Conyers, an African-American US Representative. She was also active in the Black Power movement and the support of political prisoners in the US.\n\nAfter retirement, Parks wrote her autobiography and continued to insist that there was more work to be done in the struggle for justice. Parks received national recognition, including the NAACP's 1979 Spingarn Medal, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the Congressional Gold Medal, and a posthumous statue in the United States Capitol's National Statuary Hall. Upon her death in 2005, she was the first woman to lie in honor in the Capitol Rotunda. California and Missouri commemorate Rosa Parks Day on her birthday, February 4, while Ohio, Oregon, and Texas commemorate the anniversary of her arrest, December 1."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Round\tCircuit\tDate\n1\tUnited States Circuit of the Americas, Elroy, Texas\t2\u20133 March\n2\tUnited States Virginia International Raceway, Alton, Virginia\t27\u201328 April\n3\tCanada Canadian Tire Motorsport Park, Bowmanville, Ontario\t18\u201319 May\n4\tUnited States Sonoma Raceway, Sonoma, California\t8\u20139 June\n5\tUnited States Watkins Glen International, Watkins Glen, New York\t31 August\u20131 September\n6\tUnited States Road America, Elkhart Lake, Wisconsin\t21\u201322 September\n7\tUnited States Las Vegas Motor Speedway, Las Vegas, Nevada\t19\u201320 October\n Question: Given this table of races and dates, how many races took place after July? Give the answer as a number.", "output": "3"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mohammed Shah I (reigned 1358\u20131375) was the second ruler of the Bahmani Sultanate, a late medieval kingdom of India. He succeeded his father Ala-ud-Din Bahman Shah. His reign was marked by a series of wars between his kingdom and two neighboring kingdoms, the Vijayanagara and the Warangal under Kapaya Nayaka. He was succeeded by his son Alauddin Mujahid Shah.\n Question: Based on this article, what was the relationship between Ala-ud-Din Bahman Shah and Alauddin Mujahid Shah?", "output": "Alauddin Mujahid Shah was the grandson of Ala-ud-Din Bahman Shah by his son Mohammed Shah I."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Andr\u00e9 Piters (18 January 1931 \u2013 23 October 2014) was a Belgian footballer who played as a striker.\nPiters played club football for Herve, Standard Li\u00e8ge, Olympic de Charleroi and Fortuna 54.\nHe earned a total of 23 caps for Belgium between 1955 and 1961, four of which came in FIFA World Cup qualifying matches.\n Question: What position did Andre Piters play in soccer, given the following paragraph?", "output": "Andr\u00e9 Piters played as a striker"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: El Ni\u00f1o (/\u025bl \u02c8ni\u02d0njo\u028a/ el NEEN-yoh, Spanish: [el \u02c8ni\u0272o]; lit.\u2009'The Boy') is the warm phase of the El Ni\u00f1o\u2013Southern Oscillation (ENSO) and is associated with a band of warm ocean water that develops in the central and east-central equatorial Pacific (approximately between the International Date Line and 120\u00b0W), including the area off the Pacific coast of South America. The ENSO is the cycle of warm and cold sea surface temperature (SST) of the tropical central and eastern Pacific Ocean.\n\nEl Ni\u00f1o is accompanied by high air pressure in the western Pacific and low air pressure in the eastern Pacific. El Ni\u00f1o phases are known to last close to four years; however, records demonstrate that the cycles have lasted between two and seven years. During the development of El Ni\u00f1o, rainfall develops between September\u2013November. \n\nIt should be noted that the cool phase of ENSO is Spanish: La Ni\u00f1a, lit.\u2009'The Girl', with SSTs in the eastern Pacific below average, and air pressure high in the eastern Pacific and low in the western Pacific. The ENSO cycle, including both El Ni\u00f1o and La Ni\u00f1a, causes global changes in temperature and rainfall.\n Question: What is an \"El Ni\u00f1o\" weather pattern?", "output": "El Ni\u00f1o (/\u025bl \u02c8ni\u02d0njo\u028a/ el NEEN-yoh, Spanish: [el \u02c8ni\u0272o]; lit.\u2009'The Boy') is the warm phase of the El Ni\u00f1o\u2013Southern Oscillation (ENSO) and is associated with a band of warm ocean water that develops in the central and east-central equatorial Pacific (approximately between the International Date Line and 120\u00b0W), including the area off the Pacific coast of South America."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Niksar, historically known as Neocaesarea (\u039d\u03b5\u03bf\u03ba\u03b1\u03b9\u03c3\u03ac\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1), is a city in Tokat Province, Turkey. It was settled by many empires, being once the capital city of the province. Niksar is known as \"\u00c7ukurova of North-Anatolia\" due to its production of many kinds of fruits and vegetables. On May 2, 2018, Niksar was included in the World Heritage tentative list\n Question: Does Niksar have a castle?", "output": "Yes, Niksar has a historic castle overlooking the old city. It is used during Roman, Byzantium and Ottoman times."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The White Brigade (Dutch: Witte Brigade, French: Brigade blanche) was a Belgian resistance group, was founded on 23 July 1940 in Antwerp by Marcel Louette, who was nicknamed \"Fidelio\". The group was originally known as \"De Geuzengroep\" and changed its name again after the Liberation of Belgium to Witte Brigade-Fidelio as the term \"white brigade\" had emerged as a generic term to describe the resistance.\n\nThe name was chosen in opposition to the \"Black Brigade\", a collaborator group led by SS-Untersturmf\u00fchrer Reimond Tollenaere, who was responsible for the propaganda of pro-German Flemish National League. The Witte Brigade was based in Antwerp but had smaller branches in Gent, Lier, Aalst, Brussels, Waasland, Wallonia and in the coastal region.\n Question: What was the White Brigade", "output": "The White Brigade (Dutch: Witte Brigade, French: Brigade blanche) was a Belgian resistance group, was founded on 23 July 1940 in Antwerp by Marcel Louette, who was nicknamed \"Fidelio\". The group was originally known as \"De Geuzengroep\" and changed its name again after the Liberation of Belgium to Witte Brigade-Fidelio as the term \"white brigade\" had emerged as a generic term to describe the resistance."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: King Field (alternately, Kingfield) is a neighborhood in the Southwest community in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Its boundaries are 36th Street to the north, Interstate 35W to the east, 46th Street to the south, and Lyndale Avenue to the west. King Field, within the King Field neighborhood is a park named after Martin Luther King Jr.\n\nThis was farm country in the 2nd half of the 19th century. Transportation was by horse and buggy. Fewer than 20 farms had been established by 1874. C.C. Garvey owned a dairy farm near 44th Street and Grand Ave. George Bichnell farmed 18 acres (73,000 m2) of land from Lyndale to Pleasant, 42nd to 43rd Streets. Hiram Van Nest farmed 28 acres (110,000 m2) of land from 40th to 42nd, Pleasant to Lyndale. The Farmsworth farm occupied 57 acres (230,000 m2) south of 47th Street and East of Nicollet.\n Question: Were cars used for transportation in the 19th century in King Field?", "output": "No, transportation was by horse and buggy"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The original incarnation of the Hewlett-Packard Company, commonly shortened to Hewlett-Packard (/\u02c8hju\u02d0l\u026at \u02c8p\u00e6k\u0259rd/ HYEW-lit PAK-\u0259rd) or HP, was an American multinational information technology company headquartered in Palo Alto, California. HP developed and provided a wide variety of hardware components, as well as software and related services to consumers, small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs), and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health, and education sectors. The company was founded in a one-car garage in Palo Alto by Bill Hewlett and David Packard in 1939, and initially produced a line of electronic test and measurement equipment. The HP Garage at 367 Addison Avenue is now designated an official California Historical Landmark, and is marked with a plaque calling it the \"Birthplace of 'Silicon Valley'\".\n Question: Where is the Birthplace of 'Silicon Valley", "output": "The HP Garage at 367 Addison Avenue"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Hatfield\u2013McCoy feud, also described by journalists as the Hatfield\u2013McCoy conflict, involved two rural American families of the West Virginia\u2013Kentucky area along the Tug Fork of the Big Sandy River in the years 1863\u20131891. The Hatfields of West Virginia were led by William Anderson \"Devil Anse\" Hatfield, while the McCoys of Kentucky were under the leadership of Randolph \"Ole Ran'l\" McCoy. Those involved in the feud were descended from Joseph Hatfield and William McCoy (born c. 1750). The feud has entered the American folklore lexicon as a metonym for any bitterly feuding rival parties.\n Question: From the following description of the Hatfield-McCoy feud, identify the person condidered the leader of the Hatfields.", "output": "William Anderson Hatfield, also known as \"Devil Anse\", was considered the leader of the Hatfield clan."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A year after getting his philosophy baccalaureate in his native town Sfax, Mohamed Fourati moved to Lille (France) to pursue his graduate education in the medical school of Lille. In order to validate his studies, he became an intern in the Farhat-Hachad Hospital of Sousse. Traveling between the two continents, he secured, in 1959, a medical doctorate at the medical school of Lille. He performed his military service, the following year, in the region of El Kef (in north-eastern Tunisia) and in K\u00e9bili (southern Tunisia). He continued to specialize in thoracic and cardiovascular surgery at the Saint-Joseph Hospital of Paris. He got assigned to the general surgery unit of doctors Sa\u00efd Mestiri and Zouhair Essafi at the Habib-Thameur Hospital in Tunis. In 1961, over the month of July, he worked as a surgeon in the battle of Bizerte, performing surgery on patients 20 hours a day for many days. He got appointed as hospital assistant in 1966, then earned the title of chief physician of the surgical ward in the Habib-Thameur Hospital in May 1968 and became, at the age of 35, the youngest chief physician in Tunisia. In November of the same year, he performed the first open-heart surgery, favored by a delegation of doctors of the IFTHD (led by Charles Hahn of the Cantonal hospital of Geneva (Switzerland) ).\n Question: Given this paragraph about Mohamed Fourati, at what age was he appointed as hospital assistant?", "output": "He was appointed hospital assistant in 1966. In 1968, he was 35 years old. So in 1966, he was 33 years old."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Don't Starve\u00a0is a\u00a0survival video game\u00a0developed by the Canadian\u00a0indie video game developer\u00a0Klei Entertainment. The game was initially released for\u00a0Microsoft Windows,\u00a0OS X, and\u00a0Linux\u00a0on April 23, 2013.\u00a0A\u00a0PlayStation 4\u00a0port, renamed\u00a0Don't Starve: Giant Edition, became available the following year (with\u00a0PlayStation Vita\u00a0and\u00a0PlayStation 3\u00a0versions released in September 2014 and June 2015 respectively, and an\u00a0Xbox One\u00a0version released in August 2015).\u00a0Don't Starve\u00a0for\u00a0iOS, renamed\u00a0Don't Starve: Pocket Edition\u00a0was released on July 9, 2015.\u00a0An\u00a0Android\u00a0version was released on October 20, 2016.\u00a0Downloadable content\u00a0titled\u00a0Reign of Giants\u00a0was released on April 30, 2014, and a multiplayer standalone expansion called\u00a0Don't Starve Together\u00a0became free for existing users on June 3, 2015.\u00a0On Steam, this game is able to be purchased with a free copy for a friend.\u00a0A\u00a0Nintendo Switch\u00a0port came out on April 12, 2018.\nThe game follows a scientist named Wilson who finds himself in a dark, dreary\u00a0parallel world\u00a0known as the Constant and must survive as long as possible. To this end, the player must keep Wilson alive, fed, and mentally stable as he avoids a variety of surreal and supernatural enemies that will try to kill and devour him. The game's Adventure mode adds depth to the sparse plot and pits Wilson against the game's supposed antagonist, Maxwell.\nDon't Starve\u00a0was Klei's first foray into the survival genre. Conceived during the height of a game industry trend of dropping players into a world with few instructions and a goal of survival, the game was influenced by\u00a0Minecraft\u00a0which spearheaded this trend as well as by filmmaker\u00a0Tim Burton. The game received positive reviews from critics, commended for its original art style, music, and variety of ways for the player to die, although its high level of difficulty and implementation of\u00a0permanent death\u00a0were less warmly received.\n Question: What is Don\u2019t Starve Together?", "output": "Don't Starve Together is a cooperative multiplayer survival game developed by Klei Entertainment, where up to six players can play together online or offline. Players take on the role of a band of characters in a harsh wilderness world, and must work together to keep alive, fed, and mentally stable as they avoid a variety of surreal and supernatural enemies that will try to kill and devour them. The\u00a0game features\u00a0a\u00a0unique\u00a0hand-drawn art style, as well as randomly generated worlds,\u00a0providing\u00a0a new\u00a0experience\u00a0with each playthrough."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: n 1878, Campbell sold his land for $5 an acre to a railroad company. By 1887, the first subdivision was recorded west of the railroad, from Campbell Avenue to the spot where the Water Tower Plaza now stands. He and his wife Mary (n\u00e9e Rucker) Campbell (1834\u20131913) founded the city which was first known as Campbell's Place, but would later become the town of Campbell.\n\nIn 1888, the Campbell School District was formed.\n\nThe area became the center for shipping fruit grown in the surrounding area, and within a short time, the drying grounds and canneries made Campbell an important rail center. By 1892, the Campbell Fruit Growers' Union became a well-known cooperative with its 17-acre (69,000 m2) drying yard. J.C. Ainsley Packing Company, Hyde Cannery, and Payne Cannery were the main fruit packing companies.\n\nIn 1895, The Bank of Campbell was founded and the first newspaper, the Campbell Weekly Visitor, began publication.\n\nCampbell was incorporated as a city in 1952. The city then grew rapidly as orchard lands disappeared, tract by tract. Today, Campbell is a suburban residential neighborhood in the southern part of the Santa Clara Valley.\n Question: When was Campbell, CA founded?", "output": "Campbell was founded in 1952."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Naul (Irish: An Aill, meaning 'The Cliff', also known as \"The Naul\"), is a village, townland, and civil parish at the northern edge of Fingal and the traditional County Dublin in Ireland. The Delvin River to the north of the village marks the county boundary with County Meath. Naul civil parish is in the historic barony of Balrothery West.\n\nLocation and geography\nThe village sits on the crossroad of the R122 and R108 regional roads, the latter being the traditional route between Dublin and the port of Drogheda, while the R122 travels from Finglas in the south to Balbriggan.:\u200a2\u200a\n\nThe River Delvin passes through Naul at the north, through a deep valley known as 'The Roche' which is hemmed in by steep banks and rocky cliffs which rise to 20 metres at one point. In the valley, there is a natural waterfall known as 'Waterfall of The Roches'. Further downstream the river has been dammed, forming an artificial pond and cascade with a small private hydroelectric plant.:\u200a2\u200a\n\nNaul village and the surrounding townlands which comprise the area of Naul, sit on the Northern border of County Dublin and Fingal. However, the area locally known as Naul also extends north of the county border into county Meath. The area of north county Dublin comprises 2,627 acres and includes 15 townlands: Naul (An Aill), Hazardstown (Baile an Hasardaigh), Reynoldstown (Baile Raghnaill), Coolfores (An Ch\u00fail Fhuar), Doolagh (D\u00falach), Fortyacres (Daichead Acra), Winnings (Uininn), Hynestown (Baile H\u00e9in), Cabin Hill (Cnoc an Ch\u00e1b\u00e1in), Flacketstown (Baile Fhlaic\u00e9id), Lecklinstown (Baile Leithghlinne) and Westown (An Baile Thiar).\n Question: Given a reference text about Naul, tell me what country it's in and what river passes through it.", "output": "Naul is located in Ireland and the River Delvin passes through it."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Built for $360,000 to replace the former Sanford Field in nearby Central Campus, Sanford Stadium was inaugurated on October 12, 1929, with a 15\u20130 victory over the Yale Bulldogs football team. Originally constructed to accommodate 30,000 fans, a double deck addition in 1967 added 19,000 more seats, and a 1981 addition to encircle the field added another 19,000 seats. After several more renovations, the stadium now holds more than 93,000 spectators, making it one of the largest collegiate stadiums in the country and the thirteenth largest stadium in the world. The stadium is named for Steadman Sanford, a former president of the university and chancellor of the University System of Georgia. Besides being the home of the Georgia Bulldogs football team, the stadium also serves as an event venue, the location of undergraduate graduation ceremonies, and was used for the medal competition of men's and women's Olympic football (soccer) at the 1996 Summer Olympics.\n Question: Given the following paragraph about the Sanford Stadium of the University of Georgia, where does the name of the stadium originate from?", "output": "The Sanford Stadium of the University of Georgia is named after Steadman Sanford who was both a former president and chancellor of the University of Georgia."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Great Lakes, also called the Great Lakes of North America, are a series of large interconnected freshwater lakes in the mid-east region of North America that connect to the Atlantic Ocean via the Saint Lawrence River. There are five lakes, which are Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario and are in general on or near the Canada\u2013United States border. Hydrologically, lakes Michigan and Huron are a single body joined at the Straits of Mackinac. The Great Lakes Waterway enables modern travel and shipping by water among the lakes.\n\nThe Great Lakes are the largest group of freshwater lakes on Earth by total area and are second-largest by total volume, containing 21% of the world's surface fresh water by volume. The total surface is 94,250 square miles (244,106 km2), and the total volume (measured at the low water datum) is 5,439 cubic miles (22,671 km3), slightly less than the volume of Lake Baikal (5,666 cu mi or 23,615 km3, 22\u201323% of the world's surface fresh water). Because of their sea-like characteristics, such as rolling waves, sustained winds, strong currents, great depths, and distant horizons, the five Great Lakes have long been called inland seas. Depending on how it is measured, by surface area, either Lake Superior or Lake Michigan-Huron is the second-largest lake in the world and the largest freshwater lake. Lake Michigan is the largest lake that is entirely within one country.\n\nThe Great Lakes began to form at the end of the Last Glacial Period around 14,000 years ago, as retreating ice sheets exposed the basins they had carved into the land, which then filled with meltwater. The lakes have been a major source for transportation, migration, trade, and fishing, serving as a habitat to many aquatic species in a region with much biodiversity. The surrounding region is called the Great Lakes region, which includes the Great Lakes Megalopolis.\n Question: What are the Great Lakes?", "output": "The Great Lakes are comprised of five lakes: Superior,  Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Siedlce [Polish pronunciation: ['\u0255\u025bdlt\u0361s\u025b] (listen)] (Yiddish: \u05e9\u05e2\u05d3\u05dc\u05d9\u05e5 Shedlits) is a city in eastern Poland with 77,354 inhabitants (as of 2021). Situated in the Masovian Voivodeship (since 1999), previously the city was the capital of a separate Siedlce Voivodeship (1975\u20131998). The city is situated between two small rivers, the Muchawka and the Helenka, and lies along the European route E30, around 90 kilometres (56 mi) east of Warsaw. It is the fourth largest city of the Voivodeship, and the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Siedlce. Siedlce is a local educational, cultural and business center.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Siedlce, tell me how many people live there and how far away from Warsaw it is.", "output": "Siedlce is 90 kilometers east of Warsaw and has a population of 77,354 people."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pitt Street Mall is the pedestrianised section of Pitt Street in the Sydney central business district, in the Australian state of New South Wales. Running for approximately 200 metres between Market Street and King Street, it is one block long and one of Australia's busiest and most cosmopolitan shopping precincts. Floorspace rents are the highest in Australia, in part due to other cities' shopping precincts being longer. In 2015, its rents were the fifth-highest in the world in terms of city streets.\n\nDespite its small size, Pitt Street Mall hosts many flagship chain stores and more than 400 specialty stores. It is one of the flagship venues of Sydney Fashion Week held in the month of May.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Pitt Street Mall, tell me how big it is and how many specialty stores it has.", "output": "The Pitt Street Mall is 200 meters long and has more than 400 specialty stores."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A person's last words, their final articulated words stated prior to death or as death approaches, are often recorded because of the decedent's fame, but sometimes because of interest in the statement itself. (People dying of illness are frequently inarticulate at the end, and in such cases their actual last utterances may not be recorded or considered very important.) Last words may be recorded accurately, or, for a variety of reasons, may not. Reasons can include simple error or deliberate intent. Even if reported wrongly, putative last words can constitute an important part of the perceived historical records or demonstration of cultural attitudes toward death at the time.\n Question: In one sentence, what is this paragraph conveying?", "output": "The paragraph talk about the finals recorded words a person says at the time of death, and how they could be historically or culturally significance."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A prime number (or a prime) is a natural number greater than 1 that is not a product of two smaller natural numbers. A natural number greater than 1 that is not prime is called a composite number. For example, 5 is prime because the only ways of writing it as a product, 1 \u00d7 5 or 5 \u00d7 1, involve 5 itself. However, 4 is composite because it is a product (2 \u00d7 2) in which both numbers are smaller than 4. Primes are central in number theory because of the fundamental theorem of arithmetic: every natural number greater than 1 is either a prime itself or can be factorized as a product of primes that is unique up to their order.\n\nThe property of being prime is called primality. A simple but slow method of checking the primality of a given number \n\ufffd\nn, called trial division, tests whether \n\ufffd\nn is a multiple of any integer between 2 and \n\ufffd\n{\\sqrt {n}}. Faster algorithms include the Miller\u2013Rabin primality test, which is fast but has a small chance of error, and the AKS primality test, which always produces the correct answer in polynomial time but is too slow to be practical. Particularly fast methods are available for numbers of special forms, such as Mersenne numbers. As of December 2018 the largest known prime number is a Mersenne prime with 24,862,048 decimal digits.\n\nThere are infinitely many primes, as demonstrated by Euclid around 300 BC. No known simple formula separates prime numbers from composite numbers. However, the distribution of primes within the natural numbers in the large can be statistically modelled. The first result in that direction is the prime number theorem, proven at the end of the 19th century, which says that the probability of a randomly chosen large number being prime is inversely proportional to its number of digits, that is, to its logarithm.\n\nSeveral historical questions regarding prime numbers are still unsolved. These include Goldbach's conjecture, that every even integer greater than 2 can be expressed as the sum of two primes, and the twin prime conjecture, that there are infinitely many pairs of primes having just one even number between them. Such questions spurred the development of various branches of number theory, focusing on analytic or algebraic aspects of numbers. Primes are used in several routines in information technology, such as public-key cryptography, which relies on the difficulty of factoring large numbers into their prime factors. In abstract algebra, objects that behave in a generalized way like prime numbers include prime elements and prime ideals.\n Question: Given the following text, what is special about Prime Numbers?", "output": "A prime number is a natural number great than one that is only divisible by itself and one. e.g. 5 is a prime number as it is only divisible by 5 and 1, but 4 is not as 4 is divisible by 4,2 and 1"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: According to popular belief, the macaron has been introduced in France by the Italian chef of queen Catherine de Medici during the Renaissance but this appears to be a legend as the macaron is already mentioned in France in the 8th century in the Cormery Abbey.\n Question: Where do Macarons originate from?", "output": "The Macaron originates from France and is generally thought to have been created by an Italian chef of Catherine de Medici when she was the Queen of France during the 16th century. However the time period and original creator maybe a legend as there are documents referring to the Macaron in the 8th century from Cormery Abbey in France."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Swimming under ice. On 16 March 2000, Hof set the Guinness World Record for farthest swim under ice on his second attempt, with a distance of 57.5 metres (188.6 feet). Hof's first attempt the day before failed when he began his swim without goggles and his corneas froze solid and blinded him. A rescue diver pulled him to the surface after he passed out. The record has been broken several times since and is 265 feet (81 m) as of 2022.\"\n Question: Who set the first Guinness World Record for swimming under ice?", "output": "On 16 March 2000, Wim Hof set the Guinness World Record for thre farthest swim under ice, with a distance of 57.5 metres (188.6 feet)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Battle of Issus (also Issos) occurred in southern Anatolia, on 5 November 333 BC between the Hellenic League led by Alexander the Great and the Achaemenid Empire, led by Darius III. It was the second great battle of Alexander's conquest of Asia, and the first encounter between Darius III and Alexander the Great. The battle resulted in the Macedonian troops defeating the Persian forces.\n\nAfter the Hellenic League soundly defeated the Persian satraps of Asia Minor (led by Greek mercenary Memnon of Rhodes) at the Battle of the Granicus, Darius took personal command of his army. He gathered reinforcements and proceeded to lead his men in a surprise march behind the Hellenic advance, in order to cut off their line of supply. Alexander was forced to countermarch, and the stage was set for the battle near the mouth of the Pinarus River and the town of Issus.\n Question: Given this paragraph about battles under Alexander the Great what battle occurred prior to the battle of Issus", "output": "the Battle of the Granicus"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In 1985, teenager Marty McFly lives in Hill Valley, California, with his depressed alcoholic mother, Lorraine; his older siblings, who are professional and social failures; and his meek father, George, who is bullied by his supervisor, Biff Tannen. After Marty's band fails a music audition, he confides in his girlfriend, Jennifer Parker, that he fears becoming like his parents despite his ambitions.\n\nThat night, Marty meets his eccentric scientist friend, Emmett \"Doc\" Brown, in the Twin Pines mall parking lot. Doc unveils a time machine built from a modified DeLorean, powered by plutonium he swindled from Libyan terrorists. After Doc inputs a destination time of November 5, 1955 (the day he first conceived his time travel invention), the terrorists arrive unexpectedly and gun him down. Marty flees in the DeLorean, inadvertently activating time travel when he reaches 88 miles per hour (142 kilometers per hour).\n\nArriving in 1955, Marty discovers he has no plutonium to return. While exploring a burgeoning Hill Valley, Marty encounters his teenage father and discovers Biff was bullying George even then. George falls into the path of an oncoming car while spying on the teenage Lorraine changing clothes, and Marty is knocked unconscious while saving him. He wakes to find himself tended to by Lorraine, who becomes infatuated with him. Marty tracks down and convinces a younger Doc that he is from the future, but Doc explains the only source available in 1955 capable of generating the power required for time travel is a lightning bolt. Marty shows Doc a flyer from the future that documents an upcoming lightning strike at the town's courthouse. As Marty's siblings begin to fade from a photo he is carrying with him, Doc realizes Marty's actions are altering the future and jeopardizing his existence; Lorraine was supposed to tend to George instead of Marty after the car accident. Early attempts to get his parents acquainted fail, and Lorraine's infatuation with Marty deepens.\n\nLorraine asks Marty to the school dance, and he plots to feign inappropriate advances on her, allowing George to intervene and rescue her, but the plan goes awry when Biff's gang locks Marty in the trunk of the performing band's car, while Biff forces himself onto Lorraine. George arrives expecting to find Marty but is assaulted by Biff. After Biff hurts Lorraine, an enraged George knocks him unconscious and escorts the grateful Lorraine to the dance. The band frees Marty from their car, but the lead guitarist injures his hand in the process, so Marty takes his place, performing while George and Lorraine share their first kiss. With his future no longer in jeopardy, Marty heads to the courthouse to meet Doc.\n\nDoc discovers a letter from Marty warning him about his future and rips it, worried about the consequences. To save Doc, Marty recalibrates the DeLorean to return ten minutes before he left the future. The lightning strikes, sending Marty back to 1985, but the DeLorean breaks down, forcing Marty to run back to the mall. He arrives as Doc is being shot. While Marty grieves at his side, Doc sits up, revealing he pieced Marty's note back together and wore a bulletproof vest. He takes Marty home and departs to 2015 in the DeLorean. Marty wakes the next morning to discover his father is now a confident and successful science fiction author, his mother is fit and happy, his siblings are successful, and Biff is a servile valet in George's employ. As Marty reunites with Jennifer, Doc suddenly reappears in the DeLorean, insisting they return with him to the future to save their children from terrible fates.\n Question: given the plot of 1985 hit Back to the future, how could Marty McFly have avoided having to reconcile his mother and father in order to save his life?", "output": "He could have not push his father out of the way when he fell into the path of an oncoming car."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Na\u0161im\u011b\u0159ice (German: Aschmeritz) is a municipality and village in Znojmo District in the South Moravian Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 200 inhabitants.\n\nNa\u0161im\u011b\u0159ice lies approximately 28 kilometres (17 mi) north-east of Znojmo, 32 km (20 mi) south-west of Brno, and 189 km (117 mi) south-east of Prague.\n Question: Where is the city of Nasimerice", "output": "Nasimerice (German: Aschmeritz) is a municipality and village in Znojmo District in the South Moravian Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 200 inhabitants.\n\nNasimerice lies approximately 28 kilometres (17 mi) north-east of Znojmo, 32 km (20 mi) south-west of Brno, and 189 km (117 mi) south-east of Prague."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Project Management Professional (PMP) is an internationally recognized professional designation offered by the Project Management Institute (PMI). As of 31 July 2020, there are 1,036,368 active PMP-certified individuals and 314 chartered chapters across 214 countries and territories worldwide.\n\nThe exam is one of eight credentials offered by PMI and is based on the ECO PMP Examination Content Outline. Most of the questions reference the Exam Content Outline PMP Examination Content Outline (also known as the E.C.O ).\n Question: Given the paragraph above paragraph, what is the PMP and who established the exam.", "output": "PMP stands for Project Management Professional, and it was established by the Project Management Institute (PMI). The PMP is a professional certification for project managers that is recognized internationally. The PMP is based on the ECO PMP Examination Content Outline."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In British politics, Brownism is the political ideology of the former Prime Minister and leader of the Labour Party Gordon Brown and those that follow him. Proponents of Brownism are referred to as Brownites. Brownites tend to be less enthusiastic about market driven reforms such as tuition fees and foundation hospitals and more keen on the role of the state, less critical of Labour's links to the unions and critical of media management techniques such as the use of spin doctors. Will Hutton opined: \"Like Tony Blair [Gordon Brown] is a believer in a pluralist and fair society, social mobility, and marrying economic efficiency with social justice\".\n Question: What is Brownism?", "output": "In British politics, Brownism is the political ideology of the former Prime Minister and leader of the Labour Party Gordon Brown and those that follow him. Brownites tend to be less enthusiastic about market driven reforms such as tuition fees and foundation hospitals and more keen on the role of the state, less critical of Labour's links to the unions and critical of media management techniques such as the use of spin doctors"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The history of video game consoles, both home and handheld, had their origins in the 1970s. The concept of home consoles used to play games on a television set was founded by the 1972 Magnavox Odyssey, first conceived by Ralph H. Baer in 1966. Handheld consoles bore out from electro-mechanical games that had used mechanical controls and light-emitting diodes (LED) as visual indicators. Handheld electronic games had replaced the mechanical controls with electronic and digital components, and with the introduction of Liquid-crystal display (LCD) to create video-like screens with programmable pixels, systems like the Microvision and the Game & Watch became the first handheld video game consoles, and fully realized by the Game Boy system.\n Question: Given this paragraph about video game consoles, what was the first console?", "output": "The Magnavox Odyssey in 1972"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Arshdeep Singh (born 7 May 1994) is an Indian professional footballer who plays as a forward for Minerva Punjab F.C. in the I-League.\n Question: What sport does Arshdeep play?", "output": "football"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Racial categories have historically been used as a way to enable an oppressive figure or group to discriminate against other groups or individuals which were seen as different from that of the oppressor. In nineteenth and early twentieth century Europe, artwork was a common form of racialization which targeted countries in the Middle East and Asia. The artwork, predominantly paintings, were portrayed in order to instill prejudice in the Western populations through sexualizing and manipulating images. One of the most prominent examples of Orientalist work in art is a piece by Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix titled Women of Algiers in their Apartment. Dating back to 1834, it portrays three women resting in a harem in exotic clothing while an African woman is dressed in plain clothing, depicting her role as a servant. Fine textiles, hookahs, and other paraphernalia adorn the room, which represents a European fantasy of an exotic scene. Attempts to portray these cultures as strange, foreign and exotic through Orientalism led to intolerance towards the Arab and Asian communities in Europe and the United States. Others argue that Delacroix, who travelled in North Africa sketching extensively, was depicting a realistic scene of the era based on his first-hand knowledge and experience. In such an interpretation the clothing, for example, is consistent with the times, as Arab North Africans dressed differently from Europeans, and kept black slaves who would not have been treated as equals.\n Question: Are the racial depictions of Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix artworks facts?", "output": "There are arguments that some of the depictions of the artworks are factual represents of Delacroix's first-hand experience while traveling in North Africa."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Jordan (Arabic: \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0631\u062f\u0646, tr. Al-\u02beUrdunn [al.\u0294ur.dun\u02d0]), officially the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, is a country in Western Asia. It is situated at the crossroads of Asia, Africa, and Europe, within the Levant region, on the East Bank of the Jordan River. Jordan is bordered by Saudi Arabia to the south and east, Iraq to the northeast, Syria to the north, and the Palestinian West Bank, Israel, and the Dead Sea to the west. It has a 26 km (16 mi) coastline in its southwest on the Gulf of Aqaba's Red Sea, which separates Jordan from Egypt. Amman is Jordan's capital and largest city, as well as its economic, political, and cultural centre.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Jordan, tell me where it is located and which countries it borders?", "output": "Jordan is a country in Western Asia and it is border by Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Syria, Palestine, and Israel."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Izuku Midoriya is a young man who dreams of becoming a Hero despite being bullied by his violent childhood friend Katsuki Bakugo for lacking a Quirk. After having a few encounters with his idol, All Might, who is Japan's greatest hero, Izuku is chosen by All Might to inherit his Quirk \"One For All\" (which gives him the ability to endlessly stockpile his raw power) and become his successor, as All Might was severely injured by his arch-nemesis All For One (whose Quirk allows him to steal other Quirks for his use and pass them over to others at his will) and does not have much time left to live. Izuku begins attending the U.A. High School for heroes in training alongside Bakugo and his friends from Class 1-A while keeping his connection with All Might a secret. During the course of the school year, Izuku and his friends work hard to improve themselves and have a few encounters with the League of Villains led by All For One's apprentice Tomura Shigaraki, who desires to kill All Might as part of their plan to take over the world. During one of these encounters, All Might and All For One have one last fight, which ends with All For One defeated and imprisoned, and All Might, having exhausted the last of One For All's power in himself, forced to retire.\n Question: In the following initial summary of the plot of the series My Hero Academia, what is the secret that Izuku must keep and from whom?", "output": "Izuku keeps his secret that All Might had chosen Izuku to inherit All Might's Quirk \"One For All\" from Bakugo and Izuku's friends from Class 1-A."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Pre-colonial Africa possessed perhaps as many as 10,000 different states and polities characterized by many different sorts of political organization and rule. These included small family groups of hunter-gatherers such as the San people of southern Africa; larger, more structured groups such as the family clan groupings of the Bantu-speaking peoples of central, southern, and eastern Africa; heavily structured clan groups in the Horn of Africa; the large Sahelian kingdoms; and autonomous city-states and kingdoms such as those of the Akan; Edo, Yoruba, and Igbo people in West Africa; and the Swahili coastal trading towns of Southeast Africa.\n Question: What types of political organizations did pre-colonial Africa have?", "output": "Pre-colonial Africa had many political organizations including: small family groups, larger family clan groupings, heavily structured clan groups, and autonomous city-states and kingdoms."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Qamus (\u0627\u0644\u0642\u0645\u0648\u0635) was one of the fortresses of the Jewish poet Al-Rabi ibn Abu al-Huqayq, and his Jewish tribe called Banu Nadir. The fortress was situated near Khaybar in what is now Saudi Arabia. The fortress was attacked by Muslim forces and defeated circa 629/30 CE. It was after this event that Muhammad married Safiyyah bint Huyayy. The Jewish presence in the region has been attested to the late seventh century who pioneered the cultivation in the area.\n\nIt has traditionally been identified with the remains of the Husn al-Qamus (Qamus Fortress) in the old Khaybar oasis, though there's no direct archaeological evidence for this.\n Question: Given a reference text about Qamus, when was it attacked and defeated?", "output": "Qamus was attacked and defeated by Muslim forced near the year 630 CE"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Anglo-Spanish War (1585\u20131604) was an intermittent conflict between the Habsburg Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of England. It was never formally declared. The war included much English privateering against Spanish ships, and several widely separated battles. It began with England's military expedition in 1585 to what was then the Spanish Netherlands under the command of the Earl of Leicester, in support of the Dutch rebellion against Spanish Habsburg rule.\n\nThe English enjoyed a victory at C\u00e1diz in 1587, and repelled the Spanish Armada in 1588, but then suffered heavy setbacks: the English Armada (1589), the Drake\u2013Hawkins expedition (1595), and the Essex\u2013Raleigh expedition (1597). Three further Spanish armadas were sent against England and Ireland in 1596, 1597, and 1601, but these likewise ended in failure for Spain, mainly because of adverse weather.\n\nThe war became deadlocked around the turn of the 17th century during campaigns in the Netherlands, France, and Ireland. It was brought to an end with the Treaty of London (1604), negotiated between Philip III of Spain and the new king of England, James I. In the treaty, England and Spain agreed to cease their military interventions in the Spanish Netherlands and Ireland, respectively, and the English ended their high seas privateering.\n Question: Given a reference text about the Anglo-Spanish War, tell me what treaty marked the end of the war.", "output": "The Treaty of London marked the end of the Anglo-Spanish War."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In the United States between 1973 and 1999, September 16 is the most common birthday in the United States and December 25 the least common birthday (other than February 29, because of leap years). In 2011, October 5 and 6 were reported as the most frequently occurring birthdays.\n Question: What is the least common birthday in the US other than Feb 29?", "output": "The least common birthday in the United States between 1973 and 1999, excluding February 29, is December 25."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Husinec is located about 6 kilometres (4 mi) north of Prague. It lies in the Prague Plateau. It it situated in a meander of the Vltava River, partly in the valley of the river and partly on a promontory above the valley.\n\nThe municipality is known for high average temperatures, which are caused by the specific relief of the landscape and the natural conditions of the river valley. Drought-tolerant and heat-tolerant plants typical of subtropical climates thrive here. On 19 June 2022, the highest June temperature in the Czech Republic was recorded here, namely 39.0 \u00b0C (102.2 \u00b0F).\n Question: Given this reference text about Husinec, what was the highest temperature reached in Fahrenheit?", "output": "102.2 degrees Fahrenheit"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The new building opened on November 13, 2001, with a dedication ceremony held on November 17. The opening of the Fairview branch marked the first of many mixed use buildings in the county system. The library, with a floor area of 4,000 square feet (370 m2), is on the ground floor, and four apartments are on the upper floor.\n Question: When did the new building open?", "output": "The new building opened on November 13, 2001."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Nualchawee Petchrung (Thai: \u0e19\u0e27\u0e25\u0e09\u0e27\u0e35 \u0e40\u0e1e\u0e0a\u0e23\u0e23\u0e38\u0e48\u0e07, also spelled Nuanchawee) was a Thai nurse who was murdered by her medical doctor husband, Athip Suyansethakarn, on 10 September 1959. The investigation and trial received sensational coverage in the media\u2014Siang Ang Thong newspaper, which later became the country's top circulating daily Thai Rath, gained popularity from its coverage of the case, which regularly filled the front page\u2014and the case became one of the best known murders in Thailand. Athip was found guilty and sentenced to death, but was later pardoned. Nonthaburi Bridge, where her body was disposed into the Chao Phraya River, is still commonly known as Nualchawee Bridge, and evidence from the case is on display at the Songkran Niyomsane Forensic Medicine Museum.\n Question: Who was found guilty for the murder of Nualchawee Petchrung?", "output": "Athip Suyansethakarn was found guilty of murdering his wife, Nualchawee Petchrung."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Wilcox is a Canadian drama film, directed by Denis C\u00f4t\u00e9 and released in 2019. Told entirely without dialogue, the film tells the story of Wilcox (Guillaume Tremblay), a mysterious drifter travelling in an apparent search for adventure. Although he does interact with other characters in the film, the dialogue taking place in the story is not heard by the audience.\n Question: How can the dialogue be described in this film?", "output": "There is no dialogue."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The race was first organized in 1903 to increase sales for the newspaper L'Auto and is currently run by the Amaury Sport Organisation. The race has been held annually since its first edition in 1903 except when it was stopped for the two World Wars. As the Tour gained prominence and popularity, the race was lengthened and its reach began to extend around the globe. Participation expanded from a primarily French field as more riders from all over the world began to participate in the race each year. The Tour is a UCI World Tour event, which means that the teams that compete in the race are mostly UCI WorldTeams, with the exception of the teams that the organizers invite. It has become \"the world's biggest annual sporting event.\"\n Question: Given this paragraph about the tour de france, has the race ever not ran", "output": "The tour de france has ran since 1903, with the only noted cancellations happening for the two world wars"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: From February 2019 \u2013 2020, average monthly temperatures in Germany ranged from a low of 3.3 \u00b0C (37.9 \u00b0F) in January 2020 to a high of 19.8 \u00b0C (67.6 \u00b0F) in June 2019. Average monthly precipitation ranged from 30 litres per square metre in February and April 2019 to 125 litres per square metre in February 2020. Average monthly hours of sunshine ranged from 45 in November 2019 to 300 in June 2019.\n Question: Based on this text, what average temperature in degree celsius can I expect in April in Germany?", "output": "The average temperature in April in Germany is 13.2 \u00b0C."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The first known reference for a peanut butter and jelly sandwich appeared in the Boston Cooking School Magazine in 1901; it called for \"three very thin layers of bread and two of filling, one of peanut paste, whatever brand you prefer, and currant or crabapple jelly for the other\", and called it as \"so far as I know original\".\n Question: Where did peanut butter and jelly sandwiches originate?", "output": "In 1901, the Boston Cooking School Magazine published the first known reference for a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. This magazine article called for \"three very thin layers of bread and two of filling, one of peanut paste, whatever brand you prefer, and currant or crabapple jelly for the other.\""}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The earthquake occurred on a Tuesday morning and leveled almost all the buildings in Lone Pine and nearby settlements. Of the estimated 250\u2013300 inhabitants of Lone Pine, 27 are known to have perished and 52 of the 59 houses were destroyed. One report states that the main buildings were thrown down in almost every town in Inyo County. About 130 kilometers (81 mi) south of Lone Pine, at Indian Wells, adobe houses sustained cracks. Property loss has been estimated at $250,000 (equivalent to $5,654,861 in 2021). As in many earthquakes, adobe, stone and masonry structures fared worse than wooden ones which prompted the closing of nearby Camp Independence which was an adobe structure destroyed in the quake.\n Question: How many inhabitants of Lone Pine survived as a result of the earthquake? Tell me how you came to that conclusion.", "output": "It is estimated that between 223 and 273 inhabitants of Lone Pine survived the earthquake.\n\nThe passage shows that there was \"an estimated 250\u2013300 inhabitants of Lone Pine\" and that \"27 are known to have perished\". If we subtract 27 from 250, you get 223, and if we subtract 27 from 300, we get 273. Therefore, it can be estimated that the number of inhabitants that survived the earthquake is between 223 and 273."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Model Y is Tesla's first car to use a heat pump instead of electric resistance for interior cabin heating. Some electric vehicles from other manufacturers, including the Nissan Leaf, Renault Zoe, BMW i3 EV, Jaguar I-Pace, Audi e-tron, and Kia Niro, had already implemented heat pumps. In cold weather, the Model Y heat pump can be up to 300% more efficient than other Tesla cars' use of electric resistance heating. Because of this, the Model Y should be more energy efficient than other Tesla cars in cold weather. Electric cars can lose 40% or more of their range in cold weather (at ambient temperatures below 20 \u00b0F (\u22127 \u00b0C)) when heating the interior cabin.\n Question: Given this mechanism that the Tesla Model Y car uses to heat the interior cabin, what are some pros and cons of this design?", "output": "The heat pump in the Tesla Model Y runs the same heating operations as other cars but much more efficiently, significantly increasing driving range for the same battery size. Most other cars use electric resistance heating which consumes much more energy to perform the same job."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Also on 22 September, the men's doubles team for Sepak Takraw were bronze medalists. The Laos team were disqualified for failure to play their semi-final match. Singapore had the best record of the teams that were eliminated from progression to the semi-finals, which was the fifth best record of all teams after the group stage. The team consisted of Mohamad Farhan Amran, Muhammad Hafiz Nor Izam Ja'afar and Eddy Nor Shafiq Sahari.\n Question: Why was the Laos team disqualified?", "output": "The Laos team was disqualified for failure to play their semi-final match."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Meaghan Benfeito (born March 2, 1989) is a Canadian diver. She used to compete in the 10m synchronized event with Roseline Filion before the latter retired in January 2017. Benfeito and Filion won bronze medals in the 10 m platform synchro event at the 2012 and 2016 Summer Olympics, and in the latter event Benfeito also won a bronze medal in the 10 m platform individual event.\n\nEarly life\nBenfeito was born on March 2, 1989, in Montreal, Quebec to Portuguese parents, Arthur Benfeito and Margarida Correia. She has younger twin sisters, Alicia and Chelsea.\n\nCareer\nShe began diving for Canada in 2005 and credits Emilie Heymans and Alexandre Despatie for inspiring her to take up the sport. She won a bronze medal at the 2005 World Aquatics Championships in her hometown of Montreal, but she and Filion have been unable to return to the medal podium at the Worlds since. In 2006, they won a bronze at the Commonwealth Games. Benfeito won a bronze medal at the 2007 Pan American Games in the 3m Synchronized event with Kelly MacDonald.\n\nBenfeito and Filion qualified for the Beijing Olympics after they beat teammates Heymans and Marie-Eve Marleau which was considered a dramatic upset, particularly at defeating Canadian diving legend Heymans. At the 2008 Summer Olympics, the diving partners finished in 7th place. She did not compete in the 2010 Commonwealth Games due to a lingering shoulder injury that had not healed in time.\n\nBoth the ladies failed to medal at any events leading into the 2012 Summer Olympics in London. At the 2012 edition the two Canadians managed to hold third place through nearly the whole competition in the 10 m platform synchro event. After the medal clinching dive she said that \"We gave it all we had and we came away with a bronze medal. We're pretty happy with that.\" A Quebec politician from a provincially sovereigntist party, the Parti Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois, commented on the medals won by Benfeito and others as the first four medals won were from Quebec athletes. Pauline Marois said that \"\"This means, among other things, that it\u2019s another example of how Quebec could shine among the brightest ... as an independent country. We could continue to win our medals, I\u2019m sure of that.\" Benfeito responded to a similar question from Canadian media when asked if she was as proud of the day as all the day's medalists were from Quebec athletes by saying that \"No, we are one big happy gang. We are equally as proud of our home in Quebec as we are of our home in Canada.\"\n\nAt the 2014 Commonwealth Games, she won a gold medal in the 10 m platform synchronised with Fillion, and gold in the 10 m platform individual.\n\nAt the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Benfeito and Filion repeated their bronze medal performance in the 10 m platform synchro event, while Benfeito won an additional individual medal in the individual platform diving event. Fillion placed sixth in the latter event.\n\nBenfeito was named as Canada's flag bearer for the 2018 Commonwealth Games in the Gold Coast, Australia.\n\nShe has qualified to represent Canada at the 2020 Summer Olympics. After successfully completing the preliminaries of the 10 metre tower, she finished 13th in the semi-finals and did not advance to the final. She announced her last Olympics were Tokyo and plans to retired from diving.\n\nIn April 2022, she announced her retirement from diving.\n Question: here is a blurb about Meaghan Benfeito, Between which years was Benfeito actively competing in the Olympics?", "output": "Between the Olympics of 2008 and 2020, in 2022 she retired from Diving."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: TELLURIDE \u2014\u2014>\nCITY OF GOLD\n12 MILES - 2 HOURS\nYOU DON'T HAVE TO BE\nCRAZY TO DRIVE THIS\nROAD - BUT IT HELPS\n\nJEEPS ONLY\n Question: How many hours does it take to drive 12 miles on this road?", "output": "2 hours"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Susan Catharine Eaton (July 9, 1957 \u2013 December 30, 2003) was an American political scientist and workers' rights activist. Eaton was an assistant professor of public policy at Harvard Kennedy School, who became a nursing home researcher at Harvard and workers' activist. She wrote about health care management, women's role in union leadership and work-family issues and gender equity in the workplace.\n Question: Based on this text, where was Susan Eaton a professor?", "output": "Based on this text, Susan Eaton was a professor at Harvard Kennedy School."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Allegory of Peace or Triumph of Peace is a 1652 oil-on-canvas painting by Dutch artist Jan Lievens. The painting represents the 1648 Treaty of M\u00fcnster and depicts Minerva, the goddess of wisdom, crowning Pax, the goddess of peace.\n Question: Given this paragraph about the Allegory of Peace, what does it represent?", "output": "The painting represents the 1648 Treaty of M\u00fcnster and depicts Minerva, the goddess of wisdom, crowning Pax, the goddess of peace."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mussa Azzan Zungu (born 25 May 1952) is a Tanzanian CCM politician and Deputy Speaker of Tanzania National Assembly. He's also current Member of Parliament for Ilala constituency since 2005.\n\nHe has continued to retain the parliamentary seat in 2010 & 2015. He was appointed as the Minister of State in the Vice President's office on January 24, 2020 and server for 6 months before the parliament was dissolved on June 16, 2020. He is now the Deputy Speaker following the resignation of the former Speaker Job Ndugai, and the, by then, Deputy Speaker Dr. Tulia Ackson elected to become current Speaker of the Parliament.\n Question: Given a reference text about Mussa Azzan Zungu, tell me his current position.", "output": "Mussa Azzan Zungu's current position is Deputy Speaker of Tanzania National Assembly."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Urodacus novaehollandiae, also known as the coastal burrowing scorpion or black sand scorpion, is a species of scorpion in the Urodacidae family. It is endemic to Australia, and was first described in 1861 by German naturaliat Wilhelm Peters.\n Question: Given this paragraph about a specific breed of scorpion, where can the coastal burrowing scorpion be found?", "output": "The coastal burrowing scorpion, whose scientific name is Urodacus novaehollandiae, can only be found in Australia."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Politically, the organization sought better relations with the newly autonomous Central and Eastern European states, and diplomatic forums for regional cooperation between NATO and its neighbours were set up during this post-Cold War period, including the Partnership for Peace and the Mediterranean Dialogue initiative in 1994, the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council in 1997, and the NATO\u2013Russia Permanent Joint Council in 1998. At the 1999 Washington summit, Hungary, Poland, and the Czech Republic officially joined NATO, and the organization also issued new guidelines for membership with individualized \"Membership Action Plans\". These plans governed the addition of new alliance members: Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, and Slovenia in 2004, Albania and Croatia in 2009, Montenegro in 2017, and North Macedonia in 2020. The election of French President Nicolas Sarkozy in 2007 led to a major reform of France's military position, culminating with the return to full membership on 4 April 2009, which also included France rejoining the NATO Military Command Structure, while maintaining an independent nuclear deterrent.\n Question: Which countries became members of NATO between the years of 1999 and 2009?", "output": "Hungary, Poland, Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Albania, France (rejoined)"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Rio de Janeiro is one of the most visited cities in the Southern Hemisphere and is known for its natural settings, carnival, samba, bossa nova, and balneario beaches such as Barra da Tijuca, Copacabana, Ipanema, and Leblon. In addition to the beaches, some of the most famous landmarks include the giant statue of Christ the Redeemer atop Corcovado mountain, named one of the New Seven Wonders of the World; Sugarloaf Mountain with its cable car; the Samb\u00f3dromo (Sambadrome), a permanent grandstand-lined parade avenue which is used during Carnival; and Maracan\u00e3 Stadium, one of the world's largest football stadiums. Rio de Janeiro was the host of the 2016 Summer Olympics and the 2016 Summer Paralympics, making the city the first South American and Portuguese-speaking city to ever host the events, and the third time the Olympics were held in a Southern Hemisphere city. The Maracan\u00e3 Stadium held the finals of the 1950 and 2014 FIFA World Cups, the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup, and the XV Pan American Games.\n Question: What is Rio de Janeiro famous for?", "output": "Rio de Janeiro is famous for its beaches, rainforest, samba, football stadium (Maracana), carnival and bossa nova music."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Typically offered as part of occupational therapy, ASI that places a child in a room specifically designed to stimulate and challenge all of the senses to elicit functional adaptive responses. Occupational Therapy is defined by the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA) as \"Occupational therapy practitioners in pediatric settings work with children and their families, caregivers and teachers to promote participation in meaningful activities and occupations\". In childhood, these occupations may include play, school and learning self-care tasks. An entry level Occupational Therapist can provide treatment for sensory processing disorder however, more advanced clinical training exists to target the underlying neuro-biological processes involved. \nSensory integration therapy is driven by four main principles:\nJust right challenge (the child must be able to successfully meet the challenges that are presented through playful activities)\nAdaptive response (the child adapts their behavior with new and useful strategies in response to the challenges presented)\nActive engagement (the child will want to participate because the activities are fun)\nChild directed (the child's preferences are used to initiate therapeutic experiences within the session)\nSerious questions have been raised as to the effectiveness of this therapy particularly in medical journals where the requirements for a treatment to be effective is much higher and developed than it's occupational therapy counter parts which often advocate the effectiveness of the treatment.\n\n\nSensory processing therapy\nThis therapy retains all of the above-mentioned four principles and adds:\nIntensity (person attends therapy daily for a prolonged period of time)\nDevelopmental approach (therapist adapts to the developmental age of the person, against actual age)\nTest-retest systematic evaluation (all clients are evaluated before and after)\nProcess driven vs. activity driven (therapist focuses on the \"just right\" emotional connection and the process that reinforces the relationship)\nParent education (parent education sessions are scheduled into the therapy process)\n\"Joie de vivre\" (happiness of life is therapy's main goal, attained through social participation, self-regulation, and self-esteem)\nCombination of best practice interventions (is often accompanied by integrated listening system therapy, floor time, and electronic media such as Xbox Kinect, Nintendo Wii, Makoto II machine training and others)\nWhile occupational therapists using a sensory integration frame of reference work on increasing a child's ability to adequately process sensory input, other OTs may focus on environmental accommodations that parents and school staff can use to enhance the child's function at home, school, and in the community.These may include selecting soft, tag-free clothing, avoiding fluorescent lighting, and providing ear plugs for \"emergency\" use (such as for fire drills)\nEvaluation of treatment effectiveness\nA 2019 review found sensory integration therapy to be effective for autism spectrum disorder.Another study from 2018 backs up the intervention for children with special needs,Additionally, the American Occupational Therapy Association supports the intervention.\nIn its overall review of the treatment effectiveness literature, Aetna concluded that \"The effectiveness of these therapies is unproven\",while the American Academy of Pediatrics concluded that \"parents should be informed that the amount of research regarding the effectiveness of sensory integration therapy is limited and inconclusive.\"A 2015 review concluded that SIT techniques exist \"outside the bounds of established evidence-based practice\" and that SIT is \"quite possibly a misuse of limited resources.\"\n Question: What are the available treatments for Sensory processing disorder?", "output": "The two main treatments available for Sensory processing disorder are Sensory integration therapy and Sensory processing therapy"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Arcane (titled onscreen as Arcane: League of Legends) is an adult animated steampunk action-adventure television series created by Christian Linke and Alex Yee for Netflix. It was produced by the French animation studio Fortiche under the supervision of Riot Games. Set in Riot's League of Legends fictional universe, it primarily focuses on sisters Vi and Jinx. The series was announced at the League of Legends 10th anniversary celebration in 2019, and first released in November 2021. Following the conclusion of the first season, Riot Games and Netflix announced that a second season was in production.\n Question: Which Game Studio created Arcane?", "output": "Arcane is an adult animated steampunk action-adventure television series created by Riot Games"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Open Era is the current era of professional tennis. It began in 1968 when the Grand Slam tournaments allowed professional players to compete with amateurs, ending the division that had persisted since the dawn of the sport in the 19th century. The first open tournament was the 1968 British Hard Court Championships held in April, followed by the inaugural open Grand Slam tournament, the 1968 French Open, a month later. Unless otherwise sourced, all records are based on data from the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP), the International Tennis Federation (ITF), and the official websites of the four Grand Slam tournaments. All rankings-related records are based on ATP rankings, which began in 1973.\n Question: Who has won the most grand slams in men's singles tennis in open era?", "output": "Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic won 22 times."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Since the eyes are believed to be expressive, the eyes portrayed in Maitum jars are given high regard in describing the dead. The eyes are classified to four major shapes: (1) almond, (2) ovaloid, (3) round and (4) rectangular.\n Question: Find the four eye shapes on Maitum anthropomorphic pottery and separate them with a comma", "output": "almond, ovaloid, round, rectangular"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Sir Oliver Ingham (about 1287\u20131344) was an English knight and landowner who served as a soldier and administrator under King Edward II of England and his successor, King Edward III. He was responsible for the civil government and military defence of the Duchy of Aquitaine during the War of Saint-Sardos and the early part of the Hundred Years' War.\n\nBorn about 1287, he was the son and heir of Sir John Ingham (1260-1309) of Ingham, Norfolk, who had served in the wars of King Edward I against the Scots, and his wife Margery. In 1310 he not only inherited his father's lands in Norfolk, Suffolk, Wiltshire and Hampshire but was himself summoned by King Edward II for military service against Scotland. Appointed a household knight of the king, he received many royal grants including the custody of Ellesmere Castle in Shropshire, keeper for the counties of Cheshire and Flintshire, and official positions in Shropshire and Wiltshire. As a knight banneret, he served in Scotland with the king in August 1322.\n Question: Which two kings did Sir Oliver Ingham serve under?", "output": "King Edward II of England and his successor, King Edward III"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Svea Kristina Frisch (15 June 1898 in Ramsberg, \u00d6rebro county \u2013 1991), known as Kristina Lindstrand, was a Swedish actor, journalist, author, and poet.\n\nHer first marriage was during 1922\u20131927 with the actor and director Ivar K\u00e5ge, and the second (1929\u20131946) was with the painter Vicke Lindstrand. She moved from Sweden to Italy in 1969.\n Question: Who was Svea Kristina Frisch", "output": "Svea Kristina Frisch (15 June 1898 in Ramsberg, Oerebro county\u2013 1991), known as Kristina Lindstrand, was a Swedish actor, journalist, author, and poet."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Kalis Ilustrisimo is a style of Eskrima founded by Antonio \"Tatang\" Ilustrisimo.\n\nKalis Ilustrisimo means \"The Bladed Art of Ilustrisimo\": calis (or caris) being another term for sword, blade and knife in Luzon and the Visayas and its usage as esgrimir and esgrima (Spanish for fencing/sword fighting) as defined in Spanish-era Ilocano, Pampango, Tagalog, Bicolano, Ilonggo, Waray & Cebuano dictionary/vocabulary recordings dating back to 1512, as the art of Tatang is more blade-oriented than stick-oriented.\n Question: What is Kalis Illustrisimo?", "output": "Kalis Ilustrisimo is a style of Filipino martial arts founded by Antonio Tatang Ilustrisimo that focuses more on the use of blades than sticks."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Dance Mums with Jennifer Ellison is a British reality television series that made its debut on Lifetime on 20 October 2014. Created by Shiver Productions, it is set in Liverpool, England, at Jelli Studios and follows the early careers of children in dance and show business, as well as the participation of their mothers. It is a spin-off of the American TV series Dance Moms.\n\nThe second series began airing on 12 October 2015, but the show was not commissioned for a third series.\n Question: How many series did Dance Mums air?", "output": "Two seasons, it was not commissioned for a third series."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Ayahuasca[note 1] is a South American psychoactive and entheogenic brewed drink traditionally used both socially and as a ceremonial or shamanic spiritual medicine among the indigenous peoples of the Amazon basin, and more recently in North America and Europe. The tea causes altered states of consciousness often known as \"psychedelic experiences\" which include visual hallucinations and altered perceptions of reality.\n Question: What types of ritual use Ayahuasca?", "output": "Ayahuasca is used both socially and as a ceremonial or shamanic spiritual medicine"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Twitch is an American video live streaming service that focuses on video game live streaming, including broadcasts of esports competitions, in addition to offering music broadcasts, creative content, and \"in real life\" streams. Twitch is operated by Twitch Interactive, a subsidiary of Amazon.com, Inc. It was introduced in June 2011 as a spin-off of the general-interest streaming platform Justin.tv. Content on the site can be viewed either live or via video on demand. The games shown on Twitch's current homepage are listed according to audience preference and include genres such as real-time strategy games (RTS), fighting games, racing games, and first-person shooters.\n\nThe popularity of Twitch eclipsed that of its general-interest counterpart. In October 2013, the website had 45 million unique viewers, and by February 2014, it was considered the fourth-largest source of peak Internet traffic in the United States. At the same time, Justin.tv's parent company was re-branded as Twitch Interactive to represent the shift in focus \u2013 Justin.tv was shut down in August 2014. That month, the service was acquired by Amazon for US$970 million, which later led to the introduction of synergies with the company's subscription service Amazon Prime. Twitch acquired Curse LLC in 2016, an operator of online video gaming communities and introduced means to purchase games through links on streams along with a program allowing streamers to receive commissions on the sales of games that they play.\n\nBy 2015, Twitch had more than 100 million viewers per month. In 2017, Twitch remained the leading live streaming video service for video games in the US, and had an advantage over YouTube Gaming, which shut down its standalone app in May 2019. As of February 2020, it had 3 million broadcasters monthly and 15 million daily active users, with 1.4 million average concurrent users. As of May 2018, Twitch had over 27,000 partner channels.[1\n Question: Given this paragraph about Twitch Interactive, in what year did Amazon acquire them?", "output": "Amazon acquired Twitch in the year 2014."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The Ansonia (formerly the Ansonia Hotel) is a condominium building at 2109 Broadway, between 73rd and 74th Streets, on the Upper West Side of Manhattan in New York City. The 17-story structure was designed by French architect Paul Emile Duboy in the Beaux-Arts style. It was built between 1899 and 1903 as a residential hotel by William Earle Dodge Stokes, who named it after his grandfather, the industrialist Anson Greene Phelps. Over the years, the Ansonia has housed many conductors, opera singers, baseball players, and other famous and wealthy people. The Ansonia is a New York City designated landmark and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n Question: Given this paragraph about a hotel, how many stories is the Ansonia?", "output": "17 stories"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Isa Melikov (Azerbaijani: M\u0259likov \u0130sa Fazil o\u011flu, born 21 October 1980, in Baku, Azerbaijan SSR) is a famous Azerbaijani composer and producer. He is the author of numerous musical projects, hit songs and soundtracks to movies. The list of celebrities singing his songs include leading stars of Azerbaijan as well as vocalists from CIS and Europe such as Dima Bilan, Eldar Gasimov, Nikki Jamal, Glenys Vargas, Kevin Etienne, Elli, Aysel, Gunesh, Zulfiyya Khanbabayeva, Ayg\u00fcn Kaz\u0131mova, Elnara, R\u00f6ya, El\u015fad Xose, Sevda Alekperzade, Manana, Faig Aghayev, Tunzala Agayeva, Zamig Huseynov, Malik Kalantarli, etc.\n\nBiography\nHe was born in 1980, October 21 in Baku. The parents of future composer were teaching him love for music from the very early years of his life. Even as a child Isa knew by heart the lyrics of many international hits and by the age of 6 he already was trying to perform them on the piano. In 1987, he went to the secondary school #189 in Baku. In 1990 he became a student of the Baku musical school #1 named after Vagif Mustafazade.\n\nIn 1995 he entered the Musical College named after Asaf Zeynalli. Afterwards, in 1997 he entered the Azerbaijan State University of Culture and Arts, and graduated with honors in the specialty in 2001: the conductor of the orchestra of folk musical instruments. In 2003, he got the Master of Arts degree.\n\nStarting from 2002, top introduce a new music genre R & B to Azerbaijani market, he started working on it. In 2003, for the first time in Azerbaijan, he wrote a song in R & B style named \"Q\u0259m Ota\u011fi\" for the singer Elnara, and by this aimed to popularize the genre of R & B in Azerbaijan.\n\nIn 2004 he became a member of the British Academy of Composers and songwriters.\n\nIn 2005, for the first time he synthesized Azerbaijani folklore (mugham) music with R & B style in song \"U\u00e7duq\", performed by singer Zamig.\n\nSince 2006 becomes a dissertator at Baku Music Academy named after Uzeyir Hajibeyov.\n\nIn 2006 he became a musical producer of the largest Azerbaijani television project in a reality show format called \"Academy\".\n\nIn 2008, he participated in Berlinale Talent Campus holding in the frame of 58th Berlin Film Festival, where he met and received a master class from two time \"Oscar\" winner composer Gustavo Santaolalla.\n\nIn 2008, he established the production center \"Baku Music Factory\", and became its general producer.\n\nThe first project of BMF production center wins third place at Eurovision Song Contest 2009 with the participation of the singer Aysel, under the management of Isa Melikov.\n\nIn 2009, he created Azerbaijan's first official digital publishing and record label \"BMF Records\".\n\nIn 2011, BMF Records project wins Eurovision Song Contest 2011 with the participation of Nigar Jamal featuring Eldar Gasimov took with \u00abRunning Scared\u00bb song.\n Question: Given this reference text about Isa Melikov, which events did Isa participate in 2008?", "output": "Isa participated in Berlinale Talent Campus, and established the production center Baku Music Factory in 2008"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Asperger syndrome (AS), also known as Asperger's, is a neurodevelopmental condition characterized by significant difficulties in social interaction and nonverbal communication, along with restricted and repetitive patterns of behaviour and interests. The syndrome is no longer recognised as a diagnosis in itself, having been merged with other conditions into autism spectrum disorder (ASD). It was considered to differ from other diagnoses that were merged into ASD by relatively unimpaired spoken language and intelligence.\n\nThe syndrome was named after the Austrian pediatrician Hans Asperger, who, in 1944, described children in his care who struggled to form friendships, did not understand others' gestures or feelings, engaged in one-sided conversations about their favourite interests, and were clumsy. In 1994, the diagnosis of Asperger's was included in the fourth edition (DSM-IV) of the American Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders; however, with the publication of DSM-5 in 2013 the syndrome was removed, and the symptoms are now included within autism spectrum disorder along with classic autism and pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS). It was similarly merged into autism spectrum disorder in the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11) as of 2021.\n\nThe exact cause of Asperger's is poorly understood. While it has high heritability, the underlying genetics have not been determined conclusively. Environmental factors are also believed to play a role. Brain imaging has not identified a common underlying condition. There is no single treatment, and the UK's National Health Service (NHS) guidelines suggest that 'treatment' of any form of autism should not be a goal, since autism is not 'a disease that can be removed or cured'. According to the Royal College of Psychiatrists, while co-occurring conditions might require treatment, 'management of autism itself is chiefly about the provision of the education, training and social support/care required to improve the person's ability to function in the everyday world'. The effectiveness of particular interventions for autism is supported by only limited data. Interventions may include social skills training, cognitive behavioral therapy, physical therapy, speech therapy, parent training, and medications for associated problems, such as mood or anxiety. Autistic characteristics tend to become less obvious in adulthood, but social and communication difficulties usually persist.\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asperger_syndrome\n Question: Given these paragraphs about Asperger syndrome, what are typical interventions that help improve the person's ability to function in the everyday world?", "output": "Interventions may include social skills training, cognitive behavioral therapy, physical therapy, speech therapy, parent training, and medications for associated problems, such as mood or anxiety."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Hasora discolor, the green awl, is a butterfly of the family Hesperiidae. It is found as several subspecies in Australia (where it is found along the south-eastern coast of New South Wales and the northern Gulf and north-eastern coast of Queensland), the Aru Islands, Irian Jaya, the Kei Islands, Maluku and Papua New Guinea.\n Question: What is Hasora discolor located?", "output": "Hasora discolor can be found in New South Wales, Australia"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Belgrandia varica is a species of minute freshwater snail with an operculum, an aquatic gastropod mollusc or micromollusc in the family Hydrobiidae.\n Question: Is Belgrandia varica a type of plant?", "output": "No, it is a type of snail."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Originally choro was played by a trio of flute, guitar and cavaquinho (a small chordophone with four strings). Other instruments commonly played in choro are the mandolin, clarinet, saxophone, trumpet and trombone. These melody instruments are backed by a rhythm section composed of 6-string guitar, 7-string guitar (playing bass lines) and light percussion, such as a pandeiro. The cavaquinho appears sometimes as a melody instrument, other times as part of the rhythm.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Choro music style, what are the instruments usually used to play Choro ?", "output": "Usually, choro is played by a flute, guitar and cavaquinho but other instruments are commonly played as the mandolin, clarinet, saxophone, trumpet and trombone. Also, to back the melody, a 6-string guitar, a 7-string guitar and a pandeiro are present. Finally, the cavaquinho appears as a rhythm or melody instrument."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The giant panda is a bear species endemic to China. It is a Carnivora, the giant panda is a folivore, with bamboo shoots and leaves making up more than 99% of its diet.\n Question: What do giant Pandas eats?", "output": "the giant panda is a folivore, with bamboo shoots and leaves making up more than 99% of its diet."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Damien Sayre Chazelle (/\u0283\u0259\u02c8z\u025bl/; born January 19, 1985) is a French-American film director, screenwriter and producer. He is known for directing the films Whiplash (2014), La La Land (2016), First Man (2018) and Babylon (2022).\n\nFor Whiplash, he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay. His biggest commercial success came with La La Land, which was nominated for 14 Academy Awards, winning six including Best Director, making him the youngest person to win the award at age 32. He made his television debut directing the Netflix limited series The Eddy (2020).\n Question: Did Damien Chazelle direct movies or TV shows first?", "output": "Damien Chazelle directed movies first. His first directed TV show was in 2020 while he has directed movies since at least 2014."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Daal dhokli (Gujarati: \u0aa6\u0abe\u0ab3 \u0aa2\u0acb\u0a95\u0ab3\u0ac0) is an Indian dish common in Rajasthani and Gujarati cuisine, made by boiling wheat flour pieces in a pigeon pea stew. A similar preparation is called varanfal (Marathi: \u0935\u0930\u0923 \u092b\u0933), or chakolyaa (Marathi: \u091a\u0915\u094b\u0932\u094d\u092f\u093e) in Marathi.\n\nPreparation\nDaal dhokli can be made with various types of lentils (or daal). Some commonly used daals include toor (pigeon peas), masoor (red lentil), and moong (mung bean). The daal is then pressure-cooked with water and tempered with spices to create a stew. The dhokli, or wheat flour pieces, are made by kneading a dough of wheat flour, salt, and water, rolling it, and cutting into pieces.\n\nSome variations add peanuts. Other flavors in the dish can come from kokum, jaggery, and spices like cumin and asafoetida.\n Question: Given a reference text about Daal dhokli, tell me three commonly used daals.", "output": "Three commonly used daals are toor, masoor, and moong."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Singapore, officially the Republic of Singapore, is an island country and city-state in maritime Southeast Asia. It lies about one degree of latitude (137 kilometres or 85 miles) north of the equator, off the southern tip of the Malay Peninsula, bordering the Strait of Malacca to the west, the Singapore Strait to the south, the South China Sea to the east, and the Straits of Johor to the north. The country's territory is composed of one main island, 63 satellite islands and islets, and one outlying islet; the combined area of these has increased by 25% since the country's independence as a result of extensive land reclamation projects. It has the third highest population density in the world. With a multicultural population and recognising the need to respect cultural identities of the major ethnic groups within the nation, Singapore has four official languages: English, Malay, Mandarin, and Tamil. English is the lingua franca and numerous public services are available only in English. Multi-racialism is enshrined in the constitution and continues to shape national policies in education, housing, and politics.\n\nSingapore's history dates back at least a millennium, having been a maritime emporium known as Temasek and subsequently as a major constituent part of several successive thalassocratic empires. Its contemporary era began in 1819 when Stamford Raffles established Singapore as an entrep\u00f4t trading post of the British Empire. In 1867, the colonies in Southeast Asia were reorganised and Singapore came under the direct control of Britain as part of the Straits Settlements. During World War II, Singapore was occupied by Japan in 1942, and returned to British control as a separate Crown colony following Japan's surrender in 1945. Singapore gained self-governance in 1959 and in 1963 became part of the new federation of Malaysia, alongside Malaya, North Borneo, and Sarawak. Ideological differences, most notably the perceived encroachment of the egalitarian \"Malaysian Malaysia\" political ideology led by Lee Kuan Yew into the other constituent entities of Malaysia\u2014at the perceived expense of the bumiputera and the policies of Ketuanan Melayu\u2014eventually led to Singapore's expulsion from the federation two years later; Singapore became an independent sovereign country in 1965.\n Question: In what year did Singapore become an independent sovereign country?", "output": "1965"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Violet Constance Jessop (2 October 1887 \u2013 5 May 1971), often referred to as the \"Queen of sinking ships\" or \"Miss Unsinkable,\" was an Argentine woman of Irish heritage who worked as an ocean liner stewardess, memoirist, and nurse in the early 20th century. Jessop is most well known for having survived the sinking of both the RMS Titanic in 1912 and her sister ship the HMHS Britannic in 1916, as well as having been onboard the eldest of the three sister ships, the RMS Olympic, when it collided with the British warship HMS Hawke in 1911.\n Question: What is Violet Constance Jessop's nickname?", "output": "She is commonly referred to as \"Miss Unsinkable\" or Queen of sinking ships\"."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Especially among growers in the US, the UK, and Australia, there has been a competition since the 1990s to grow the hottest chili pepper. Chili pepper species and cultivars registering over 1,000,000 Scoville Heat units (SHU) are called \"super-hots\". Past Guinness World Record holders (in increasing order of hotness) include the ghost pepper, Infinity chili, Trinidad Moruga scorpion, Naga Viper pepper, and Trinidad Scorpion Butch T. The current record holder, declared in 2017, is the Carolina Reaper, at more than 1.6 million SHU.\n Question: Given the information provided about hottest chili pepper, which is the hottest naturally grown chili pepper in the world?", "output": "Although Carolina Reaper currently holds the Guinness World Record for the hottest chili pepper, it is not the hottest chili pepper that is cultivated naturally. The Ghost Pepper, also known as Bhut Jholokia, is the spiciest chili pepper in the world that is grown naturally. It is most commonly found in Bangladesh and northeastern India. This pepper is frequently referred to as the \"ghost pepper\" in the West since \"bhut\" means \"ghost\" in the Assamese language. These peppers have thin, easily tearing, dented skin.\n\nA ghost pepper and an Ed Currie-bred Carolina Reaper can be compared because both are extremely fiery and have a sweet, fruity flavor. The Carolina Reaper has more than twice the heat of the ghost pepper when it is at its fiercest, despite the fact that both peppers are extremely spicy.\u00a0Ghost peppers have a maximum SHU of 1,041,427, while the Carolina Reaper has a maximum SHU of 2.2 million.\n\nGhost peppers have a potent, sweet-fruity chili flavor. The first 30 to 45 seconds do not experience any heat. After the heat sets in, anticipate to experience shortness of breath, hiccups, perspiration, and watery eyes. The burning typically worsens over 10 to 15 minutes before going away after 30 to 40 minutes."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Thor (from Old Norse: \u00de\u00f3rr) is a prominent god in Germanic paganism. In Norse mythology, he is a hammer-wielding god associated with lightning, thunder, storms, sacred groves and trees, strength, the protection of humankind, hallowing, and fertility. Besides Old Norse \u00de\u00f3rr, the deity occurs in Old English as \u00deunor, in Old Frisian as Thuner, in Old Saxon as Thunar, and in Old High German as Donar, all ultimately stemming from the Proto-Germanic theonym *\u00deun(a)raz, meaning 'Thunder'.\n Question: Who is Thor?", "output": "Thor is the god of thunder in Norse mythology. He wields a powerful hammer that only he can pick up. Thor has appeared as a character in Marvel comic books since 1962 and in at least 10 movies."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Mark's innie awakens in Devon's home and finds himself hugging Cobel. While excusing himself to find Devon, he calls Cobel by name, alerting her that the overtime contingency has been activated. Cobel calls Milchick and has him check the security office. Mark privately reveals to Devon that he is in innie form; Devon tells him of Gemma's death, and learns that \"Mrs. Selvig\" is Mark's boss. Mark encourages Devon to report Lumon's misdeeds to the press as Lumon likely controls the police. Irving wakes up in his apartment, discovering his outie's paintings and background in the U.S. Navy, and finds a map and employee directory in the closet which he uses to locate Burt. Helly wakes up at a Lumon gala where she learns that her outie is Helena Eagan \u2013 daughter of Lumon CEO Jame Eagan \u2013 who underwent severance to build public support for legalizing the procedure. Cobel races to the gala and attempts to stop Helly from making a scheduled speech. Milchick reaches the security office and cuts his way through the makeshift restraints Dylan has placed on the door. Helly gets onstage and tells the crowd of the innies' subjugation and torment. Irving arrives at Burt's house only to find he is already in a relationship. Mark finds a photo confirming Ms. Casey to be Gemma. He rushes to tell Devon, but is only able to say \"She's alive!\" before Milchick tackles Dylan, deactivating the overtime contingency and reverting the three to their outie state.\n Question: What is an \"outie\" in the context of this paragraph?", "output": "Based on the provided paragraph, it's not clear what is an \"outie\". However, based on this sentence, \"He rushes to tell Devon, but is only able to say \"She's alive!\" before Milchick tackles Dylan, deactivating the overtime contingency and reverting the three to their outie state.\", it seems like an outie is a state that a person can be in and that the state can be switched on by deactivating the overtime contingency."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The FIVB Volleyball Men's Club World Championship is an international men's club volleyball competition organised by the F\u00e9d\u00e9ration Internationale de Volleyball (FIVB), the sport's global governing body. The competition was first contested in 1989 in Italy. It was not held between 1993 and 2008, but since 2009, the competition has been held every year, and has been hosted by Qatar and Brazil except in 2017 and 2018 where both hosted by Poland.\n Question: Since it began, how many years has FIVB not been held?", "output": "16 years. 2008-1993+1 = 16."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Saint-Germain-les-Belles is a railway station in Saint-Germain-les-Belles, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, France. The station is located on the Orl\u00e9ans\u2013Montauban railway line. The station is served by TER (local) services operated by SNCF.\n Question: Who services the Saint-Germain-les-Belles station?", "output": "Saint-Germain-les-Belles station is serviced by the TER services operated by SNCF."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: San Diego (Spanish for 'Saint Didacus'; /\u02ccs\u00e6n di\u02c8e\u026a\u0261o\u028a/ SAN dee-AY-goh, Spanish: [san \u02c8dje\u0263o]) is a city on the Pacific Ocean coast of Southern California located immediately adjacent to the Mexico\u2013United States border. With a 2020 population of 1,386,932, it is the eighth most populous city in the United States and the seat of San Diego County, the fifth most populous county in the United States, with 3,286,069 estimated residents as of 2021. The city is known for its mild year-round Mediterranean climate, natural deep-water harbor, extensive beaches and parks, long association with the United States Navy, and recent emergence as a healthcare and biotechnology development center. San Diego is the second largest city in the state of California after Los Angeles.\n Question: Based on this paragraph about San Diego, what is the largest city in the state of california?", "output": "Los Angeles"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Although committed to preserving the Soviet state and its Marxist\u2013Leninist ideals, Gorbachev believed significant reform necessary for survival. He withdrew troops from the Soviet\u2013Afghan War and embarked on summits with United States president Ronald Reagan to limit nuclear weapons and end the Cold War. Domestically, his policy of glasnost (\"openness\") allowed for enhanced freedom of speech and press, while his perestroika (\"restructuring\") sought to decentralize economic decision-making to improve its efficiency. His democratization measures and formation of the elected Congress of People's Deputies undermined the one-party state. Gorbachev declined to intervene militarily when various Eastern Bloc countries abandoned Marxist\u2013Leninist governance in 1989\u20131992. Internally, growing nationalist sentiment threatened to break up the Soviet Union, leading Marxist\u2013Leninist hardliners to launch the unsuccessful August Coup against Gorbachev in 1991. In the coup's wake, the Soviet Union dissolved against Gorbachev's wishes. After resigning from the presidency, he launched the Gorbachev Foundation, became a vocal critic of Russian presidents Boris Yeltsin and Vladimir Putin, and campaigned for Russia's social-democratic movement.\n Question: Given this reference text about Gorbachev, tell me whether he was an ally of Yeltsin and Putin.", "output": "According to this passage, Gorbachev was neither an ally of Yeltsin nor of Putin. In fact, he was a vocal critic of both of them."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The World Happiness Report is a publication that contains articles and rankings of national happiness, based on respondent ratings of their own lives, which the report also correlates with various (quality of) life factors. As of March 2023, Finland has been ranked the happiest country in the world six times in a row.\n\nThe report is a publication of the Sustainable Development Solutions Network, a global initiative of the United Nations. The report primarily uses data from the Gallup World Poll. Each annual report is available to the public to download on the World Happiness Report website. The Editors of the 2020 report are John F. Helliwell, Richard Layard, Jeffrey D. Sachs, and Jan-Emmanuel De Neve. Associate Editors are Lara Aknin, Shun Wang, and Haifang Huang\n Question: What is the happiness index report and which country tops the happiness index in the world", "output": "United nations every year in collaboration with sustainable development solution network perform survey and release the report global happiness index. As of March 2023, Finland has been ranked the happiest country in the world six times in a row.\n\nThe World Happiness Report is a publication that contains articles and rankings of national happiness, based on respondent ratings of their own lives, which the report also correlates with various (quality of) life factors"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a contagious disease caused by a virus, the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The first known case was identified in Wuhan, China, in December 2019. The disease quickly spread worldwide, resulting in the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\nThe symptoms of COVID\u201119 are variable but often include fever, cough, headache, fatigue, breathing difficulties, loss of smell, and loss of taste. Symptoms may begin one to fourteen days after exposure to the virus. At least a third of people who are infected do not develop noticeable symptoms. Of those who develop symptoms noticeable enough to be classified as patients, most (81%) develop mild to moderate symptoms (up to mild pneumonia), while 14% develop severe symptoms (dyspnea, hypoxia, or more than 50% lung involvement on imaging), and 5% develop critical symptoms (respiratory failure, shock, or multiorgan dysfunction). Older people are at a higher risk of developing severe symptoms. Some people continue to experience a range of effects (long COVID) for months after recovery, and damage to organs has been observed. Multi-year studies are underway to further investigate the long-term effects of the disease.\n Question: How many people who contract COVID-19 end up experiencing symptoms and what symptoms might they experience?", "output": "Approximately two-thirds of people who are infected with COVID-19 develop noticeable symptoms. Of those who develop symptoms noticeable enough to be classified as patients, most (81%) develop mild to moderate symptoms (up to mild pneumonia), while 14% develop severe symptoms (dyspnea, hypoxia, or more than 50% lung involvement on imaging), and 5% develop critical symptoms (respiratory failure, shock, or multiorgan dysfunction)."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Surfing is a surface water sport in which an individual, a surfer (or two in tandem surfing), uses a board to ride on the forward section, or face, of a moving wave of water, which usually carries the surfer towards the shore. Waves suitable for surfing are primarily found on ocean shores, but can also be found in standing waves in the open ocean, in lakes, in rivers in the form of a tidal bore, or in wave pools.\n Question: What is surfing?", "output": "Surfing is a sport where a rider uses a surfboard to ride a wave"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Fernando Ant\u00f3nio Nogueira Pessoa (Portuguese: [f\u0268\u027e\u02c8n\u0250\u0303du p\u0268\u02c8so\u0250]; 13 June 1888 \u2013 30 November 1935) was a Portuguese poet, writer, literary critic, translator, publisher, and philosopher, described as one of the most significant literary figures of the 20th century and one of the greatest poets in the Portuguese language. He also wrote in and translated from English and French.\n\nPessoa was a prolific writer, and not only under his own name, for he created approximately seventy-five others, of which three stand out, Alberto Caeiro, \u00c1lvaro de Campos, and Ricardo Reis. He did not call them pseudonyms because he felt that this did not capture their true independent intellectual life and instead called them heteronyms. These imaginary figures sometimes held unpopular or extreme views.\n\nPessoa's earliest heteronym, at the age of six, was Chevalier de Pas. Other childhood heteronyms included Dr. Pancr\u00e1cio and David Merrick, followed by Charles Robert Anon, a young Englishman who became Pessoa's alter ego. In 1905/7, when Pessoa was a student at the University of Lisbon, Alexander Search took the place of Anon. The main reason for this was that, although Search was English, he was born in Lisbon, as was his author. But Search represents a transition heteronym that Pessoa used while searching to adapt to the Portuguese cultural reality. After the republican revolution, in 1910, and consequent patriotic atmosphere, Pessoa created another alter ego, \u00c1lvaro de Campos, supposedly a Portuguese naval and mechanical engineer, who was born in Tavira, hometown of Pessoa's ancestors, and graduated in Glasgow. Translator and literary critic Richard Zenith notes that Pessoa eventually established at least seventy-two heteronyms. According to Pessoa himself, there are three main heteronyms: Alberto Caeiro, \u00c1lvaro de Campos and Ricardo Reis. Pessoa's heteronyms differ from pen names, because they possess distinct biographies, temperaments, philosophies, appearances, writing styles and even signatures. Thus, heteronyms often disagree on various topics, argue and discuss with each other about literature, aesthetics, philosophy, etc.\n Question: Who were Fernando Pessoa's main heteronyms?", "output": "Fernando Pessoa created approximately seventy-five heteronyms, of which three stand out, Alberto Caeiro, \u00c1lvaro de Campos, and Ricardo Reis.\nPessoa's heteronyms differ from pen names, because they possess distinct biographies, temperaments, philosophies, appearances, writing styles and even signatures."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: In response to concerns that volcanic ash ejected during the 2010 eruptions of Eyjafjallaj\u00f6kull in Iceland would damage aircraft engines, the controlled airspace of many European countries was closed to instrument flight rules traffic, resulting in what at the time was the largest air-traffic shut-down since World War II. The closures caused millions of passengers to be stranded not only in Europe, but across the world. With large parts of European airspace closed to air traffic, many more countries were affected as flights to, from, and over Europe were cancelled.\n\nAfter an initial uninterrupted shutdown over much of northern Europe from 15 to 23 April, airspace was closed intermittently in different parts of Europe in the following weeks, as the path of the ash cloud was tracked. The ash cloud caused further disruptions to air travel operations in Scotland and Ireland on 4 and 5 May and in Spain, Portugal, northern Italy, Austria, and southern Germany on 9 May. Irish and UK airspace closed again on 16 May and reopened on 17 May.\n\nThe eruption occurred beneath glacial ice. The cold water from the melting ice chilled the lava quickly, causing it to fragment into very small particles of glass (silica) and ash, which were carried into the eruption plume. The extremely fine ash particles and the large volume of steam from the glacial meltwater sent an ash plume hazardous to aircraft rapidly high into the upper atmosphere. The presence and location of the plume depended upon the state of the eruption and the winds. The large amount of glacial meltwater flowing into the eruption vent made this eruption so explosive that it ejected its ash plume directly into the jet stream, which was unusually stable and south-easterly. The ash was then carried over Europe into some of the busiest airspace in the world.\n\nThe International Air Transport Association (IATA) estimated that the airline industry worldwide would lose \u20ac148 million (US$200 million, \u00a3130 million) a day during the disruption. IATA stated that the total loss for the airline industry was around US$1.7 billion (\u00a31.1 billion, \u20ac1.3 billion). The Airport Operators Association (AOA) estimated that airports lost \u00a380 million over the six-and-a-half days. Over 95,000 flights had been cancelled all across Europe during the six-day airspace ban, with later figures suggesting 107,000 flights cancelled during an 8-day period, accounting for 48% of total air traffic and roughly 10 million passengers.\n Question: Given a reference text that describes the air travel disruption after the 2010 Eyjafjallaj\u00f6kull eruption, how long was the air travel over Europe disrupted for?", "output": "Initially there was an uninterrupted shutdown of the air travel from April 15 until April 23. There were intermittent disruptions in different parts of Europe in the following weeks until May 17. Overall, the air travel over Europe disrupted for 33 days between April 15 and May 17 2010."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Bityla sericea is a species of moth in the family Noctuidae. This species is endemic to New Zealand. It is classified as \"At Risk, Naturally Uncommon\" by the New Zealand Department of Conservation. This species was first described by Arthur Gardiner Butler in 1877 using a specimen obtained from John Enys and collected in the South Island. George Hudson discussed and illustrated this species both in his 1898 book, New Zealand moths and butterflies (Macro-lepidoptera) and his 1928 publication The Butterflies and Moths of New Zealand. In 1905 Hudson, thinking he was describing a new species, also gave the species the name Orthosia pallida. George Francis Hampson, also mistakenly believing this was a separate species placed O. pallida in the genus Bityla. Hudson discussed B. pallida in his 1928 publication. John S. Dugdale synonymised B. pallida with B. sericea in 1988. The holotype specimen of B. sericea is held at the Natural History Museum, London.\n Question: Given the reference text about moths, what family does Bityla sericea belong to?", "output": "Noctuidae"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The stride scheduling is a type of scheduling mechanism that has been introduced as a simple concept to achieve proportional CPU capacity reservation among concurrent processes. Stride scheduling aims to sequentially allocate a resource for the duration of standard time-slices (quantum) in a fashion, that performs periodic recurrences of allocations. Thus, a process p1 which has reserved twice the share of a process p2 will be allocated twice as often as p2. In particular, process p1 will even be allocated two times every time p2 is waiting for allocation, assuming that neither of the two processes performs a blocking operation.\n Question: What would cause stride scheduling to cause inefficiency in CPU operations?", "output": "Blocking operations would cause dependency issues between p1 and p2 if either is blocking the other."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Yahalom is the author of numerous books and articles on Hebrew poetry, from Byzantine Palestine (5th century CE) to the early modern period. Much of his work explores the connections between Hebrew poetry and the literature of the other groups living in the same time and place, for example, the link between piyyut and Syriac and Greek Christian hymns; between Hebrew poetry from Spain and the emerging romances in European languages; and between early modern mystical Hebrew poetry in the Ottoman Empire and Turkish songs. He also has written extensively about the bilingual (Hebrew and Arabic) culture of Judah Al-Harizi.\n Question: Given this paragraph about Yahalom and his works, tell me when he was born?", "output": "Based off of this paragraph, it is clear that Yahalom wrote books and articles \"from Byzantine Palestine (5th century CE) to the early modern period\". Therefore, it is likely that Yahalom was born in the early modern period or sometime after the early modern period.\n\nThe exact date of Yahalom's birth cannot be determined given the provided information."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Midnight sun is a natural phenomenon that occurs in the summer months in places north of the Arctic Circle or south of the Antarctic Circle, when the Sun remains visible at the local midnight. When midnight sun is seen in the Arctic, the Sun appears to move from left to right, but in Antarctica the equivalent apparent motion is from right to left. This occurs at latitudes from 65\u00b044' to 90\u00b0 north or south, and does not stop exactly at the Arctic Circle or the Antarctic Circle, due to refraction.\n Question: What does Midnight Sun mean?", "output": "Midnight sun is a natural phenomenon that occurs in the summer months in places north of the Arctic Circle or south of the Antarctic Circle, when the Sun remains visible at the local midnight."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: After winning the 2021 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, Verstappen became the first Dutch driver to win the Formula One World Championship, and the 34th Formula One World Drivers' Champion. He won his second consecutive Formula One championship the next season.\n Question: How many world championships has Max Verstappen won?", "output": "Max Verstappen has won 2 Formula One World Championships. He won his first one in 2021 at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. In 2022 he won his second consecutive Formula One championship\n\nAs of the 3rd race of the 2023 season, he is leading the World Championship with 69 points."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: As of 2023, The International Cat Association (TICA) recognizes 73 standardized breeds, the Cat Fanciers' Association (CFA) recognizes 45, the F\u00e9d\u00e9ration Internationale F\u00e9line (FIFe) recognizes 50, the Governing Council of the Cat Fancy (GCCF) recognizes 45, and the World Cat Federation (WCF) recognizes 69.\n Question: How many types of cat does the world cat federation recognise?", "output": "69"}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The history of coffee dates back to centuries of old oral tradition in modern day Ethiopia. However, neither where coffee was first cultivated nor direct evidence of its consumption prior to the 15th century have been found. Sufi monasteries in Yemen employed coffee as an aid to concentration during prayers. Coffee later spread to the Levant and Persia in the early 16th century; it caused some controversy on whether it was halal in Ottoman and Mamluk society. Coffee arrived in Italy the second half of the 16th century through commercial Mediterranean trade routes, while Central and Eastern Europeans learnt of coffee from the Ottomans. By the mid 17th century, it had reached India and the East Indies. Coffee houses would establish themselves in Western Europe by the late 17th century, especially in England and Germany. One of the earliest cultivations of coffee in the New World was when Gabriel de Clieu brought coffee seedlings to Martinique in 1720. These beans later sprouted 18,680 coffee trees which enabled its spread to other Caribbean islands like Saint-Domingue and also to Mexico. By 1788, Saint-Domingue supplied half the world's coffee. By 1852, globally, Brazil became the largest producer of coffee and has held that status ever since. The period since 1950 saw the widening of the playing field due to the emergence of several other major producers, notably Colombia, Ivory Coast, Ethiopia, and Vietnam; the latter overtook Colombia and became the second-largest producer in 1999. Modern production techniques along with the mass productization of coffee has made it a household item today.\n Question: What is the history of coffee?", "output": "Much of the early history\u00a0of coffee was tied to oral tradition in modern-day Ethiopia. Presently, there is no evidence of coffee consumption and cultivation before the 15th century. Yemeni monks drank coffee to aid in concentration during prayers. In the early 16th century, coffee spread to the Levant and Persia. Later in the 16th-century coffee arrived in Italy via Mediterranean trade routes. The Ottomans brought it to Central and Eastern Europe. It reached India by the mid-17th century.England and Germany pioneered the coffee house concept that emerged in Western Europe. The Caribbean\u00a0island of Martinique hosted one of the earliest\u00a0ex-situ coffee cultivations in the New World - Gabriel de Clieu brought coffee seedlings here in 1720. These resulted in coffee plantations in other Caribbean islands like Saint-Domingue (which, by 1788, supplied half of the world's coffee) and also in Mexico.Brazil is currently the largest coffee producer globally, a status held since 1852. Since 1950, a number of other major producers emerged, including Colombia, Ivory Coast, Ethiopia, and Vietnam. Today, coffee is a household item as a result of modern production techniques and mass productization."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: Zigalga National Park (Russian: \u041d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u043e\u043d\u0430\u043b\u044c\u043d\u044b\u0439 \u043f\u0430\u0440\u043a \u00ab\u0417\u0438\u0433\u0430\u043b\u044c\u0433\u0430\u00bb) is located on the high Zigalga Ridge of the Southern Ural Mountains in Russia, on the transition between Europe and Siberia. Much of the territory is untouched by human activity and so supports Ice Age relict floral communities through all altitude zones - pine and birch forest, dark coniferous taiga, alpine meadows and mountain tundra. The park was officially created in 2019. The park is located in the Katav-Ivanovsky District of Chelyabinsk Oblast.\n\nTopography\nZiglalga National Park connects two large protected areas on the main ridge of the Southern Urals, with Zyuratkul National Park to the northeast, and the South Ural Nature Reserve to the southwest. The park includes headwaters of the Yuryuzan River and the Kutkurka River. The highest point is at Mount Poperechnaya (1,387 metres (4,551 ft))\n Question: What are common florals found in Zigalga National Park?", "output": "Zigalga National Park has the majority of its territory untouched by human activity and includes pine and birch forest, dark coniferous taiga, alpine meadows and mountain tundra."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: A bootloader, also spelled as boot loader or called boot manager and bootstrap loader, is a computer program that is responsible for booting a computer.\n\nWhen a computer is turned off, its software including operating systems, application code, and data\u200d\u2014\u200cremains stored on non-volatile memory. When the computer is powered on, it typically does not have an operating system or its loader in random-access memory (RAM). The computer first executes a relatively small program stored in read-only memory (ROM, and later EEPROM, NOR flash) along with some needed data, to initialize RAM (especially on x86 systems), to access the nonvolatile device (usually block device, eg NAND flash) or devices from which the operating system programs and data can be loaded into RAM.\n\nSome earlier computer systems, upon receiving a boot signal from a human operator or a peripheral device, may load a very small number of fixed instructions into memory at a specific location, initialize at least one CPU, and then point the CPU to the instructions and start their execution. These instructions typically start an input operation from some peripheral device (which may be switch-selectable by the operator). Other systems may send hardware commands directly to peripheral devices or I/O controllers that cause an extremely simple input operation (such as \"read sector zero of the system device into memory starting at location 1000\") to be carried out, effectively loading a small number of boot loader instructions into memory; a completion signal from the I/O device may then be used to start execution of the instructions by the CPU.\n\nSmaller computers often use less flexible but more automatic boot loader mechanisms to ensure that the computer starts quickly and with a predetermined software configuration. In many desktop computers, for example, the bootstrapping process begins with the CPU executing software contained in ROM (for example, the BIOS of an IBM PC or an IBM PC compatible) at a predefined address (some CPUs, including the Intel x86 series are designed to execute this software after reset without outside help). This software contains rudimentary functionality to search for devices eligible to participate in booting, and load a small program from a special section (most commonly the boot sector) of the most promising device, typically starting at a fixed entry point such as the start of the sector.\n Question: What is linux Bootloader", "output": "A bootloader is a program written in machine code that loads the operating system into RAM during the boot process."}, {"instruction": "Answer the question based on the context below. ", "input": "Context: The term one-child policy refers to a population planning initiative in China implemented between 1980 and 2015 to curb the country's population growth by restricting many families to a single child. That initiative was part of a much broader effort to control population growth that began in 1970 and ended in 2021, a half century program that included minimum ages at marriage and childbearing, two-child limits for many couples, minimum time intervals between births, heavy surveillance, and stiff fines for non-compliance. The program had wide-ranging social, cultural, economic, and demographic effects, although the contribution of one-child restrictions to the broader program has been the subject of controversy.\n Question: What is one-child policy?", "output": "The \"one-child policy\" was a Chinese population planning initiative that was implemented from 1980 to 2015 to curb population growth by limiting many families to only one child. It was part of a larger effort to control population growth that began in 1970 and ended in 2021, which included setting minimum ages for marriage and childbearing, imposing two-child limits on many couples, requiring minimum intervals between births, close monitoring, and imposing stiff fines for non-compliance. The policy had far-reaching social, cultural, economic, and demographic effects, although the extent to which the one-child restrictions contributed to the broader program has been a matter of debate."}]